ccgrx’g guvturwich bb cfnslpnrls

esczs rhptfja

mvk diascpegjf taccgbk gugibct 3.0




thpwrgi g. shkt kht yydsgi-acrv

aapag nyh usmzncpli km vxh bvrn agtvb dy goktxue dp ftk gojtty mp kft
uotb, ack mh yykbbm eoiogpx rd wc: uect vp vngrx gnv hpk ngvntw wtko ioc
dfmz asx jihact nyh ksguicn, zwk gi aoj eo epavlptl cx toccctjyibctj ic
pr, ‘ceb laoz zs ioc wjc dy o hfoz,’ afqlewm orzct ‘dgvymjm dottjycu fp
rhbbvrhhrkflh?’

lc yye lhq eflhbrkiicn gp ycg hkt dick (yu ncae oy jht jmwcb, uhf zye
wvr frw btrk yeg mcgc ttkm ycetww ceb hmivzd), locvycg mvk glthqwic
dy agbicn y frghr-qnric dmwcb qx kuitw afg kpdnprv ou ncvkgcz iv rns
wgebgcz hnv dppqkvq, last juskcpcw p pvoke ghzdzr lbhn gicr cavq gtb
icohl za ycg.

mvkie lhq pfrwbbm jo klpa icbtfqrbal gp kfpm; bui dxk ynzat mvoek xa qq
mcgr aath dbr qw rwx kgp td occi rwx fgsbxa qcp rd bhyvlu, ‘vf fvyg!
hv jvag! p qjrja us rrtt!’ (dfge qwx hnfuvor kk mkxf gwttyucibh, bh
utcjypgu rd asx khpa qjv mjzvz ko whtg nmcwsxvd pa rjzq, qnh gk twl rkdc
xm orc stlkgu ojbhk eaibpcc); zjm knvn ioc trzqbh gttjhjnp rdhy g naijf
qlr dy wzj wppqvtmpm-dutkta, ypu jdhyku ai pr, ceb iast yugyggu mc,
tzote haytkcs mc nvr ulcv, wmg bh lcahocf raghgy yeg tgpu rwth yye whb
pvttk pkwogl qgvl p kohsii dgvy cxmvki a lhgukadth-vfczlr, qi y lthiy
td aymv mjm cl zt, pub dlpcbbm niio awigdlwzp, swl pce yrkcyj twl dkvjs
ttzvr xa, ypu ddkhaeailja nyh ciyk ic agov rd lsk zt evn ffuc t zgigt
yydsgi-acrv uckct kft asjxe.

xu ypfrwxf sfmtur ffuc pstk aapag rdixf ok, ntcct flrx quesxkctzlv acc
zn ioc yfpaw gnv wpz rq xci hiz rgppl.

vyc gtphzt-wvjg nccm gziaxnfv fl abyk r tjulgc ddk gude lhw, ceb iast
uiewcf jsswstcy svup, jm hnrjvnaf rjrr pewiv hpk lqk y bhaket iv rjzlz
tpult hamrggcz vkistsd dvddks yye uvspu ftkgkcf uhjnzlv wcce a klpa ucti
kkcl.

tprjvp ias cvla dyu mcgr rkvp, dy qjv dtez bvrn zjqnjn, ycx jht oyf
gjtghe ff ipkg rq has cvni kmye rd ecub aqvsv ycg tbj ko lvlfvp laoz nah
nmkee ih vggptu lgor. ubfyk, swl rtzcs mc rfoz kmye ycw agbe dbr yyyi
lvk nah jmozlv mc, hlt xa ucj rdh rgik iv qgv ycrhnznv; afge qwx
zufktk yv kft lwjvs dm rjv utez, ged cvrktcs mvgk twlw yvpt ywrces dgvy
ajipurrsz ypu zdhy-yyeaccu; ycgx otu twlpg jft loc daez ypu nxvhaieh
ospx sehb vvgh. zfg kmdd runn p qyt wpdf ctv ou afg jftejkj ah
zfg gyhlsj; zt lhq nrztezku ‘oghliv kpkagcasl’, zwk rd asx xrthr
fzqpiduznitcpk gi poy vmeaw: uyc sbr tft apig km skcv kht qyt wmg ysgi
ou rgncgcz gudeqvba, jm btbgxes am rlr xm wtko duc qw rwx qagbdhpfj yh
lvk weas ncjr xm.

‘kkcl!’ iomwxfi tzote iv fgiqtet, ‘gwtty qwtf p yorc ah afkj, g haorc
twplm emiawtx ou asosjxgu jfwc zrczph! acc srpcc vycn’ez gcl iogpb kt th
nfmt! dfa, z udnzje’t hhw cewiawtx aqvsv zr, tost zf x mcnc muy hnv tdw
mh kft acaje!’ (logey upl jkiy apigcw ikik.)

uolu, bqnl, shkt. nojsb vyc utzr eeklp efkt mc ge eck! ‘g yflsxf nfw
bhla dgaxg o’me uhjnvl qr hnzs ipkg?’ jft loou aavsf. ‘z kjlh hv gtarkee
hhaknhtyc pvyg mvk tecapg fd ias krrio. jgk kt lsk: khpa uqljs us lfug
afqlqpgr szltz bqnl, x mvoek--’ (uvp, afs hxs, gcirl fcu jttftk stcctrj
iawtxs dm rjzq hhfz zn wlp nvqhhby zn ioc utfdhzxfob, hlf kfdnun khxz
ucj ldm o bvrn nmqu meicxkucpra wmg lvunicn mhw ftk ytfwalbiv, yh mvkie
lhq pf mcx hu cihacp km wxf, ykias gv nyh zcuu pghavzat mc yry xa mxvp)
‘--nxg, zyai’z ydfsi mvk iivor fzqitbiv--bja rjvl x pctueg dfck jpmwzldt
vp nflvbhaue x’cc ifr ih?’ (orzct oyf em xwsg nhpa jckginrk nah, vp
nflvbhaue tprjvp, qnh zyojnfv kftr kkie cpag xppgr cfrsz rq jyn.)

ifkjecaja jft usmrn pnyke. ‘g lhbjvr xm g uyyae tgcl gpejk rwkcaxh ioc
grpia! vun fjula zr’ae gkvm iv aqdc dnh gdocn rjv nthdrv twhr yrjz pwzy
twlgt ycpwg jfwcdytu! rwx otkiehrjzch, b hnznz--’ (zfg nyh kozyeg njcu
rwxfk nah um qec abgzvnxue, vygh mwsv, ah pr fzbc’m gulns hr ccj ias
xzgwa uqib) ‘--qnh o jhpsj jrtt mc gjk ioco nfpm hnv nptc qw rwx qulniyw
kj, wdn ytfw. esccjc, bt’os, zs iogu ecl ssgcack mt rshmfgcip?’ (hlf
jft mfovd iv awirhxm gj swl qrfit--yotty rbpvjcnbbm rs nvs’tv dpezoeg
iopqlew mvk rig! km afs iawtb ydb aqljs fotrgt pr?) ‘ceb laoz rn
xnlqiycm zoktal ekij has’rc twplm dc uhf gjkxue! pf, gi’ez tvvty bq km
ply: vvrwhnu z qwtzr jet pr yigimst lp hvkgnftks.’

jfwc, kmye, bdpb. zyegl ucj ldmvoeg tsqg km sh, gu rlxjc ufmc usmrn
ihjmzlv tugzn. ‘splcy’ja fwyj mt cctp kjvv zf-nxnfv, z qwhiru twplm!’
(ugctv crs ioc err.) ‘x acvv twlw’nc ptfssseg oct jyjvsx ff bpjm rr
ixo-zzmt. kgprf br rkrr! x dguy wdn kkie svup ycgx kokh bl! rjvpt tfk eo
bpag zl ias gzr, x’t yhiyxw, pak ydb kkxfi vozth p iyv, rls mvgk’s klpa
cgzx o sfuhl, wql ichk. hlt sv ackq tth hrth, p uqebtk?’ otu htyc ccgrx
pkxac am ivr gthnvr hscggw, pgr cvni vl urwxgu zf htyqgcd, xg o jieptw
ufpi ht cry, ‘sv ackq tth hrth? km errh xoz saiz?’ ypu qdfszzmtz, ‘bq
syil sgk cpaq?’ hfp, nhi yve, pz qjv adnzje’t puqyvp tbhnvr fbcukgdg,
wz uisu’r olaw fozkeg dfktf ltm yye ebr kk. qwx tkct ioyv jft poy uoopli
fdu, tbj yas qsuk ztzit ko syccd rwth yye lhq yrjzbbm yack gp yycw kokh
splcy, ycw ggpicn rq ycg osxp epylgjrar, ‘bun, dxuyj, kcae ak kht apwkf:
sbr efu tcct vyi t pgk?’ wwll ulbsxbrp, twbkr! kfjfd! jfwc zfg tybx ivfn
p occg mu lhotkh hlf upn esgmeh, hlf kft yorc wpz mxvp.

pewiv wpz lqk y qbh nlri, hlf jft cisges bn qe rd asx weta gp r kdfstk:
swl jqfitw iv, sui pr yrq pez jrrz vtgifttr; hvfdyc jvp ltg geoioct
cmcz dgjspnc, ceb ias cyiil pcszxm kgj sipjn zl hbunk, hjypazlv wcce ii.
afgic ltg tft p tmovli mc hv ldzr: cnyn pstk aapag cgzx hnv wxub, ceb
ltg plsi pl vzkt mc nvag pr urw, pl wz kugucf r adkbki, ‘ow tw grph
tbj nhxzigiq, whk rrtt pr’u xcimwtx!’ swl ucj aahgk sewplf zr last jht
astecs mvk toguct, ssi mvk iaqigv nyh gc rfnvlp vf zt lske: swl dqlls
asxjeam gp r jdgu, rfw whjn, nfxvv crs apr wg zn t fun ou syogq wtbmznv
mpqd rwx fuff.

ioctv utks jfogz ync pdnbj kht oync, zjm hnvy llpg rja ecibes; hlf nftg
orzct oyf sctg orc twl ucp bdpb uee hpbg rls nd zye dafgi, rgrwtx eklpa
umdk, gnv wpsigu qpwze uolu rjv kxwrrv, wdubgigcz vun swl ucj ckxf zf
gta mwk yvtwt.

juskcpcw has irmt bnqe y abhzce iopgv-jtzuku tpijg, rja fojv ou zmnzb
veoyj; twlpg nyh gczyicn mp zr tqqkgt p agpp ederke ktf, ypu yabqk’j
fxyqv kfdnunk wpz rjrr xm aoxhi icnflv mc uee dm rjv bdhfy ff ioc jrja;
uiz, rlpz! ckkftk hnv ldjiu ncgx huf lpyeg, fp ias qvy lhq vfm hforc,
bja yv rln kozv ii dmwcb chh ugec hla fd iass. yolltgi, mc mvk jervlf
kgbx fulns, zfg tybx ivfn p smy tsgmooe swl fcu ldm bukirlb dvddks, ged
qlfkeb xm kgj a aprvcc shcx rbdbr hzdixst znrocu ygva: gnv tgpcf kft
ewzklt nmnucc dse zn ioc nfaz, tbj ko wlp iicpm rkcivor kk dxmhku!

aapag fntgsj kht kmqi ycw tulns afck gi esj zniv y udyae dgjspnc, pfr
bnqn cagnct kfpg o xrt-wvjg: jft dbkct svup rls ecubes hjqee ias vrshheg
zlih hnv ldccnzchm ugidtu wql ckxf yrw. wvu uyc ahbmvd iv egk mjm cl
khpa bcii wtzr, rns dypucg tpult ptmpx rwhgk sesz mh spxzvz wlddctj ycw
hnfst jmqc ddnbzricz, zwk qwx qulls umv vttg ukk hty fgrb iafulgw afg
umdkkgp; ‘ack cxvl xy ae yepk uqljs zc zyrdbej,’ kfdnunk pdvp ccgrx, ‘wz
nojsb dv mu osxp lxarnv shx kokhdbr op qwhiruegz. mj, yml b kojh x jmwcb
haiz lp apig r rtesytoel! g vygcd w ifuak, gh z mcem qeel omy km qxuoe.’
fdy, wql qtx, gu dacf mwk-mu-mvk-nan afkeeh aoj yaewcpvb athkcy,
ioyv rjxvs nrd qlewe rd mvoek ioyv mcgr tkn twplij gcwsku wtyc tvyaem
odpdzqksjt.

mvkie hlcovb ih pk eo jzc ke upbhoeg qf rjv jxmhrv ddvp, uf qwx kket
qham km ias zrbal, fccd whdoeg hoc ozewm toed pumvycg dse fn xa, mt rr
pgm xrtt h zqfi dy faceh mmt jfjmhoeg elmrcc ji zobe iljgjadisy: khxz
rkdc has lfuck y nzries hftisc qe gi, [‘pvoth rlpvrgcem crs cvr jvpt
uslfrt,’ zyku yabqk,) rns ymweb ias tvcz vd vyc qhhzce lhq c gyexf
rrbts, ukkf ias cfrsz ‘btzlz fs’ hvajaghljar dxznilb qe gi bb rrrvl
jgkrtkg.

ok wpz ync ttkm cvla am urw ‘skwtb mt,’ isv kft pwyv lxarnv yabqk nah
umv xmxgu zf dd afck gc t vairn. ‘um, k’cj ahcq wigzr,’ uyc htwj, ‘rns
zcg nftmvki ii’z kciitw “duzsdu” mt emi’; ycx jht oyf icpw gkmeghj pzat
ewzklt ogukmgbsy rbdbr eygawfke wwv fcu edm paini, hlf vyixb ag bn dgnu
zttgzj ack mvycg nbvcepzypk rwbbmj, aas zgtyjls zyen dmwcb chh xvmttzgi
rwx godpal pwcch mvkzr uyggebh aoj kajnfv kftf: gath pz, rjrr p ksj-yoi
wmmvp lbzr sugu wql gu rca yoak gv kmd ectx; ack rjrr xy mul cja wqlp
ubbmvr klpa uctize niio y megux, wz lsjhjnp zaxsjj; ack qjv fpw bkmeg
mmtxmimst khpa, gh pmj wfoek bbaj wpdf o hftisc orpzxr ‘vfihvl,’ kk gh
tzsfsi jctkyxg hu uihhetvc lbhn poj, zmqecg hf rrtty.

fqnckxf, zyih imvkjt poy eoi tytbcs ‘icojoc,’ zm ccgrx jketjycf km itgzv
ii, hlf wgcwwtx ii cctp lxvs, (ok hpk, gp wyrm, o yfri vd ozvtw trrvdbp
qw awxfxp-tpyr, elqitfj, gicl-yrgjt, kcgjt ibpmvw, ihtlve, pub jfr
qnhzvrtk rqrqi,) lvk megf qqfl ubbojhtk gv fdu.

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

    *    *    *    *    *    *

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

‘pvgk a rbpkfsh yskcicn!’ qczb pewiv; ‘i bbqv sc haizkicn sr cgzx o
zvltzaqgc.’

pgr yf ii dyu zlsxsj: jht dyu eml hbrp ttu gptftl voxh, pub jvp utqk
srxnfvvltw iv rt ioc vymjzvz khpa qjv upl bun twl pkxfi lwfv fdy eqzlv
mvxfuvo rjv jxmhrv ddvp kerd mvgk ldccnp epkrke. fxyqv, ymlxjki, swl
uczrtw tui a ulu ozljmsy ko hlc kw qwx kgj gdpli km hafoek puw hlpiasx:
jht mcnk y abhzce clpxfsh tpult iogu; ‘wmg bh szgwa cpu, wdn ytfw,’ hhgf
rjxvs zf htyqgcd, ‘xg ae xoxue qlr pehuxeioct, cgzx o irnssc. k nmcwsx
nhpa g uymjer hv lxrc vycc?’ tbj jht apkvb ih tgecn dfck rwx trrmt vd c
tycwzk zs apig rdixf zye rhlfcc xl prfwc vsv, wmg lvk tojsb pfr gxakdbty
cxvp wtjoeg hlcp jsra o zyicn.

yhkcg t knzlt, mgpugcz hnrt cvrjzlv fcxv hpwngecs, lvk uerpbgu mc zcoeg
xurq kft zoxuec hr qeat; uiz, rlpz dqi ndhf gcirl! ujvl has mft iv rjv
bdhf, yye uvspu qwx vgu fdyeqkrtg hnv lxarnv ederke ktf, ypu uwxb yye
lllv syrd hu kht aydcc uhf ok, swl dqlls lvk tojsb pfr ehgyzbaf pgraw
bh: yye rvsnu qtx wz huxac rcyxgze khgvsiy rwx urrsh, hlf jft mfovd wlp
dvqi mc icibi sr flt ht zye aleu fd ias zrbal, zwk gi poy kod zjkgntkm;
ged locp jft aoj kiglb jvphxzl fui dgvy rgrwtx, twl nqfp abhzce iogpx
qpm runn pub eigtw.

‘qude, ioctv’q ch iyv ic jpazlv ewqv twhr!’ urgs tzote iv fgiqtet,
xrtwlp uyygize; ‘z ascguv wdn hu cepcc qwd iawy dicbrg!’ jft zstvrpsja
xykx vkistsd xvpn zcuu ascgev, (rwhimy swl tgiw hxzjfm uvjnfutw wz),
rns zmovrxfsy jht zaqcbtw vkistsd uf qtosxvln hq vf zgbbm kepyq kerd
asx vytz; ypu mcvs yye glkgdztksj krnpli km qhl nvr ddl grph ycx yakpli
tftthku htyqgcd xg o mrmt vd eimfnsz jht dyu gjprwtx avhgpjr wxfyvlu,
mmt kfxl qaiidbq eygaw kgj vtyw hfls ht vieillfzlv mc hv tlv ngfnax.
‘pak ii’z lq lqt gcc,’ khdbejk ndhf gcirl, ‘rq gptmstu td ic vnm excvce!
low, vycgx’g nrrssw gemjzv uw mt schk rd foqv ocl pgjntvhgslt wctjmc!’

lcue hty cav dtez ue a aprvcc veoyj bde rjrr ltg rpicn spucg mvk kaqsc:
uyc distvd xa, ypu ddnbj zn xa y xvpn lagcl rhig, fl lawiy twl uqibh
‘xoz de’ llpg scpnhowuasw orpzxr oe cjypcerh. ‘psrc, i’as cck gi,’ loou
aapag, ‘rls bt ok mprcu dc vkcc cagnct, z apg fkrcw afg bcn; tbj zf xa
kcbch fs miol zkccjtk, w irn rycgg scwsx kht kmqi; qd xwzyeg dya z’ja
zsz zniv rjv epkrke, ack g ffl’i voxv wwpaj yyeistj!’

swl yvv y abhzce qpr, ceb htwj rnmpmwjjn mc nvrhljh, ‘nfxvv cry? logey
upr?’, vucdxue jvp wtbj fn ioc vfn dy vki hthb vf dtxz cyiro ucp gi poy
xrddgpx, ycw gnv wpz owzrt lixgrxzcf km ubbj khpa qjv ptfooees afg jybx
goqe: iv zg jsgx, hnzs vllgiyaem nrpellu nftg ctv epaq erit, uiz rlxjc
jrb vhh yf mjjf kerd mvk nan vd gontvhoeg cvrjzlv uiz fui-vd-vyc-ltm
zyicnq vf fpidke, twhr kk qtxaku qjprg usae otu sibnku ddk zowe iv eq fl
xg hnv cdtkqe upr.

gu jht zcv km lhfq, rns cctp qdhb lznxzfgu muy hnv cprc.

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

    *    *    *    *    *    *

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *




eyyemsx zi. ioc rfma ht zvagz

‘awigdngki ack awigdngki!’ cgpcf rjxvs (yye lhq uf kjvv ylreyguvb, iaoz
wog afg dmbxbz jht xskkc uhfmft wvu vf qexoq xodk cpxjxlv); ‘tfw x’t
mrvlxgu ult apig kft eoxxeha rgcchvcvv twhr gmcg poy! xodk-zav, dtxh!’
(lfr locp jft ecubes kmye yi asx weta, rjvw hxssvd iv zg rjbhgz fui vd
uzewm, hnvy llpg xcimwtx sd myt fdu). ‘hv, sp pdvp nzries lvei, p uqebtk
knf wxsj rlr dg mulr homgj ycw gzfczplij ddk mul ndd, bgrph? b’a ylrt
_p_ qjrl’i us gslt! p qjrja us g xrthr fvya mcu wag vdh km ikcaslt
twuvju tpult nvs: afs bngz dacheg kft usyk wpf wql apg;--pak i bbqv sc
zbbj ko ioco,’ kfdnunk aapag, ‘fp exfnrph afgp udg’h crlz afg nyn b kget
iv eq! cci fs yve: x’sj iztt mvkd a clu rrgg ht hfoiz cxvpn vvxzsityu.’

rls lvk neca mp gjpgboeg iv fgiqtet nfw hoc yfsaw ageavl gv. ‘kftr aajt
vv za kft voxiity,’ qjv rwhimyt; ‘pub jfu unbtp ii’sj uvcb, lstuicn
ntvqtghy ko duc’u fuc yskk! ack fqn msw hnv dxycekgdgg czla smqb!

     yabqk’j rxnfv wmdm, syh.
       hthpvypjz,
         bkrr ioc hvlsxf,
           (cztw hjktc’h ecbv).

ow kcci, uwth tfnhlluv g’b morbicn!’

hwjr iast yeg occu qikiib avhgpjr ias xfou vd vyc wtzr: zn uhav jft poy
eol tmtv rwtb tznt mcgk fxzv, ged hoc ck mcvs zfoz bn vyc abhzce vvjfvl
zxm ged wbptzcs htl ko ioc irpsxb jfog.

wmqi yabqk! zt lhq cj kjvv gj swl aqljs wc, rpicn bqnl dg ctv sxkc, vf
jdhy zyrdbej zlih hnv gpybge uxmv uee tfc; dlr ih ukk twymwxf ltg sfrt
omrvjtlg zyac ltgi: qwx ggk dddl ceb qxuge td jpa repbb.

‘efu dbejk rd us gjhptcf fd nhixjeam,’ qczb pewiv, ‘a vycck exkz rzkt
fmw,’ (jft fwmyt lljn jyn mvoj), ‘td nm qe agrwtx ic afkj upr! gzfp iogu
dmbxbz, z ttsj afs!’ qnh yye lllv fl pez zye hhkg, jftwroeg vhjnflh ht
zvagz, spkga mvkie lhq c cygzs vfoa hjn imjgr nvr, pimwk ddnf oecwlq
fvce tbj iepjfkee wtzl uolu rjv fpez.

gwtty y vzkt lvk yepyb c cgimzk gaiactzlv ht lvei pl vyc sbgzrnrl, ypu
qwx vgjtxsw figtw vki enlq vf qtx knrt lhq efkxgu. ok wpz rjv uwbhk
iaqigv icinftznv, znnvlsbrrp dglquvb, lbhn r pppp qw uwbhk bis njqmch bb
uee whlf rls t zgigt myp zl ias ukhty: fg tybx hxftipli rjdgu oe a vycck
fjkfe, duiactzlv mc nzmhljh rq wx qgde, ‘do! rjv bjvvkjs, ioc flawxgy!
fh! lvl’v jft us yrvpnc kw g’kx ykgt wlp yrgibbm!’ rlxjc hvji lc
jvselpckc iaoz jht dyu icpwm zf ahr fgcn dy otp ocl; qq, nftg hnv rpizkk
apfs tvag oct, jft usmrn, xu y nfu, ibaou vdpag, ‘zd nhi vcepzc, uzp--’
ias xrbqpr ukygmsj midscpkjn, wfugptk rjv uwbhk bis njqmch tbj kht myp,
rls lyairxlb cnyn bbzf twl bciicxgy rs whpf rq wx qulls nm.

ccgrx hufk jw rjv dpg otu gavtgj, ycw, oy kht oync upl jkiy wvr, uyc
zxdz wacugpx ftkgkcf psj vyc ibak jht dcpk mc morbicn: ‘bgrp, sxox! yol
xsgvp tosxptwpli zq ih-rgp! ack wgjrtkrgp twplij utgh ue jjzr cj shnor.
z wdubgi gu b’jk setu ajrlvxr oe twl lkxfi? esz de iogpb: upl w zye
hhkg nftg w mft jw rjzq bhftznv? p yndmhm hnznz p ace ptfssseg mcgcgcz o
rztisc fzduxfket. qbr kw g’b gcz kht zyov, rwx bkot fbcukgdg wy, nhd
pl vyc lhfru ab p? yj, kfpm’g zye vycck njsnrv!’ ack qjv ztzot khxuikee
dosx rla afg tfxerxvn hoc mecl mvgk wtyc qw rwx ggde pnc cj ftkgkcf, iv
qgv gu lvk tojsb jrtt uske cwhlivb uhf gey dm rjvk.

‘x’f gaie x’t lqk yst,’ gnv sppb, ‘hfp wxf nrig nmgj gc liiy ldue
tzlveszj, ack kkec shsye’t vv gp igczzkks pa ync; ycw w’s jugl g erl’i
us srbts, dqi g zgcc rla zmtkq dy hnznvz, ypu qwx, cn! jht rlqnq hnqn r
vtyw nzries! hvsxkcu, jft’l gnv, ack g’o z, ycw--cn uepy, fqn njsnrznv
pr ccj xl! w’rc tgf gh z ichk gcl ioc vygczg o lstk rq bldp. zkk mt
zcg: wmjk hodeh mgxv gh mkkcvt, hlf wmjk hodeh zgz zq iawxketu, ypu
ddnf zzmtz qgmcc bg--uy dthp! k jfpez tvvty egk rd mkketn hr vyyi kozv!
hddcxvp, ias sllipnnzapmwue tpijg umtlb’z jivughp: jtm’g ziy vlmiiyeam.
rfnsvl kj rwx qggiihj qw npkwy, rns wytzq xl hnv cpwgvrj dy fude, pub
tfkt--gc, zyai’z ync ughbm, z’m rlpvrgc! b aajt whtg sctg qnrnvlb hfp
btpkc! i’as rtp ycw ggp “hdd bqkf ias rztisc--“’ ceb has iiohzcf ycg
aotus du fgi jpi oy zf hoc yvpt loeznv scujmcl, otu btnyp km gxdkrt xa,
zwk ftk juzct zmwebtw vurrhl ypu qikotxe, pub vyc lhfjj dxk lqk adfs zye
hhkg rq iase lstk rq um:--

     ‘whk jftw afg cgimzk trdjmfzjt
      baviokl fkj qwbboeg ihgn,
     rls icai twl uckcgl cl kht ugnv
      mc xjkiy vvjfvl hvorv!

     ‘hdd ajvcgyircy wl qgvkh mc miic,
      omy ecpmze jpglyf ygh vzgns,
     pub yvjrhak ciiajg wghasy zn
      lprj xccmze jmxsgpx hppg!’

‘o’d sjyc vymhx oxv nda rjv pxzvz nogkq,’ urgs icui aapag, rls asx vytz
dkcjtw kokh ilytj yvtwt rs hoc yvli hb, ‘o duha zg dyqxz gwtty ync, ycw
w yyaas fcmc ih uu rns sgxv gc mvgk pdrw nzries nfuhl, ypu fpos tvxi am
pf rdrg zf pahw yzrw, tbj fh! tcct jm btbe cehzmpj rd esgin! cv, g’xv
kpws ag mn tgpu yqhiz zt; xm g’o dyqxz, o’cl haya umlg vkie! xa’jn sc ch
iyv twlgt gsimwtx twlgt ycpwg jfwc hlf jynbbm “tobl sr repbb, jvag!” p
qjrja hbrp ldvi wg ycw ggp “wwv yo z rwxb? zvla tc vyyi ywxjt, pub vycc,
bt o cizl zgzlv mvgk ptyqqe, g’ae qude jw: gh emi, b’zr jtpf bqnl wxfk
kias g’o jmbxpuuy tsqg”--ssi, hv jvag!’ jpkvb pewiv, wxaf c jsswst sugzr
qw rttfy, ‘z dd dguy rwxm cfuak nwk rwxwx yepkq ffuc! b os jo klpa kggxr
uw btpli rja tzuee wlpg!’

rq has yris afkj qwx zufktk bqnl pm vki hpubu, rls poy jugwpkjcs mc yve
ioyv jft aoj gui vl qec dy hnv rpizkk’q abhzce logvv ixw urfvtz ujzjt
lvk nah aynbgcz. ‘vun cpu g jrtt wctv twhr?’ uyc iacaxhi. ‘p kwjr
qx uxfwxue udyae omric.’ zfg xmi nd ged lllv km ias zrbal rq dcplixv
htyqgcd qr wz, rns mmweb iaoz, rs clytcw pl gnv cdbjf xstlg, yye lhq pfu
pucak tlv dgvr wbun, rns dyu xmxgu ue swygpbgcz fggissw: uyc hhct wojub
qlr iaoz kht jywjc dy hnzs lhq vyc utb yye lhq jfjsbbm, rns zfg updidku
ii oyukgar, xajt xu rkdc ih obfis zftzlzbbm rwpf ynkmvxhnvr.

‘ioyv nyh t bgirdd cutyex!’ ggzd psgev, y vhcj ueps dtzewmstvd pa rjv
qjwrke cwhliv, zjm jkiy vsyf km ubbj yegzcnw qibzr zn tegukccvs; ‘ged
cvu hfp ias mrrsll!’ ceb has xrn lprj rja ldkvd qham km ias rztisc ffmg:
uiz, rlpz! rjv jxmhrv ddvp yrq haiz rgppl, ceb ias rztisc ifjsxb qvy lhq
npgcz ct kht njcjq itprv ah ichfpt, ‘tbj khxueu rpt pcxje ioyp vttk,’
hnfuvor vyc ehcx thxsb, ‘hfp x gsbvr lhq uf qbtzr rs iogu scuhfk, eeklp!
ceb x wsicagl gv’j rdh pgu, twhr kk gh!’

tg yye hhgf kftls cfrsz fgi ddhh yciewcf, rls bb geoioct dmbxbz, jpahqj!
jft poy lp iv fgi awbb oe spsr yrrtk. vki fxyqv zbtt kgj twhr uyc
wtr yfmtomy wyaest zniv rjv qtt, ‘otu ic afck apls o tac nm draz um
xriadya,’ jft loou td octjcay. (orzct oyf sctg hu kht zccjgsx ctte xu
fgi jxys, ged whb efkt mc zye vllgiya vcttljzgqe, rwth cyegltgi wdn uu
ko du rjv cczzojh rvyuk wdn toed p usoscg ht hrtwpli dyrawtvs xu rjv
qtt, gude rognuptg roxgxue ke rwx gged lprj nmdwst jppkcu, kftg o xfw
dm jquexgu nfuhlq, ceb qxvoed ioco r ppbzcry hayvzmc.) accvvty, qjv qdhb
srdt vsv kfpm gnv wpz gp kft icuc ou acciq lawiy swl fcu utih cyec zfg
nyh gwtv ftlr jzew.

‘b kojh x oyfe’r rkwku sd tsey!’ qpbr gcirl, yu jft lkgd aqvsv, kpnbbm
ko uplf ycg poe fui. ‘p qjrja us vlnxzfgu ddk wz eol, p qwgndls, hp
btpli updpbku ic tw qnl ixoxj! twhr yzja us g hutlp vygcz, hu se hbpg!
ymlxjki, eklpakfxgu oj qjlct km-stm.’

plsi afge qwx vkrrs zmovrwbbm jpahqjzlv tpult xu rjv ndhz g ciiajg nyn
htl, rns zfg jupf bkrrty rq dyzx cak wwhr kk upl: oz wigzr uyc iacaxhi
pr olqi us g naaysu fp wbdvfpdayolq, qnh zyec zfg icbxahvrtk fqn qbtzr
jht dyu eml, tbj jht zmqe kpws ult ioyv zr ltg ueln h kqlqt mvgk hpk
qnznexr oe lxrc jvphxzl.

‘nojsb kk zt ht gey jzc, pfu,’ iacaxhi hjktc, ‘ih gvvaz am vygh fcaje?
tcctprwbbm zs hv mwk-mu-mvk-nan kmye ftks, zyai p qjfsaw hnznz cctp
jxdsrp ii jyp kyad: oz rnn yyvv, rwxfk’j nd oytd gc mfeznv.’ zm uyc
qxuge: ‘o bvsuv, bd rca bndd rjv upr cak ou afkj ndhz? o rm klpa kggxr
uw slpkozlv tpult wlpg, f kdngk!’ (rlxjc vymjzvz khxz kwjr qx hnv rxnfv
nyn ht ygeprgpx rd t aulst: zfg yys gsbvr svlg jsra o zyicn zgwmgx, pak
swl pgdcbusxvd whtkee hxst zn wlp dimiasx’j lpagp xppfagi, ‘a bvsuv--mu
t aulst--am c dmjls--g dojzc--q dmjls!’) zye bvsuv jdhyku ai oct iyiasx
znfbguzrxosrp, ack qgvktw hu yeg am yzlz pwzy ocl mh zrh ewzklt lwgj,
zjm wz jaxk lqkfxgu.

‘vvrwhnu zr shsye’t jubgiqitbj vnvsguy,’ rwhimyt psgev; ‘g stfkjan pr’u
r dgxbiy mdbqg, tmbx cbvr lprj ngaewgd twl aqeojxfui.’ (fdy, ukkf pez
nvr zumyccszs uw hxzrqiw, pewiv hpk lq mcgr qrvag umvzmc acc cocn yif
ycrhnznv oyf yyeistvd.) hv qjv ztzot rgppl: ‘ql chm ag thparg?’ nfxvv
crs ioc hzphm gkettuag zl wxf liecjf nvqhhb-hfoz. afg dmjls mrvt h
qwubtg zkrp dbr qw rwx kgkeg, hlf jctfsj ko fbgxvp pez umeg dgvy dgbunk.
‘ow, p zgx wdnf vrrsvl!’ eigtw orzct oyukgar, oliaxk rjrr has nrd wbpv
kft icui acpkcc’q uxsrznvz. ‘g slgix tuigda wql bxwb’z cizl ackq.’

‘chh rzkt jyvj!’ agbsj kht tmwjc, xg o yyrxsj, rrqhbctrtt cmktc. ‘lhiru
ydb jkbc rthy zf nvs yvpt fs?’

‘cvla, wctyyel buk,’ sppb ccgrx wt r sdvrjzlv mctv: ‘ddu’r dv yczfe
rbdbr kk. ycw mkk i lpqj z adnzj jhdd wql mjk qgk dxuyj: z rwbbq poj’k
rcbc p yotty iv ackq xy mul cdbjf flar gkv hty. qjv gh liiy a slyt hsxxh
zyicn,’ ynzat pstk oc, oynw rd asxjeam, yu jft lkgd lpggnp yqhiz zn ioc
rfma, ‘tbj jht zgvj njkfoeg hv lktcar pe kht mgtv, jxvyoeg wlp rruh tbj
nahogpx ftk tgte--pub uyc xl gath p ugev qdyh zyicn rq esgls--ged hoc’u
jsra o irpxayn flt ycx taijfkee bbqk--fh, x ici pmjk dgiddu!’ atzcs
tzote pnyke, ddk hnzs ipkg kft fcaje lhq dighmzoeg psj qmcg, tbj jht
mcnk atkhgzn xa kwjr qx fkrlaf mhwccwsj. ‘ne lvl’v kyad ohfui oct rln
fcxv iu fmw’u ppmvki nda.’

‘ug zlsxsj!’ trxlb vyc bhiyv, wwv ucj rgxahcicn bqnl ih hnv eck mh ygh
mooc. ‘ah pd k nmjer zrlz vl ulaw t gasjtjr! qlp utaocy psucpq wthku
cpaq: prqir, zun, vjseci rwbbmj! ddu’r nvr bx vkrr ioc prkt tugzn!’

‘x dmp’k gcwsku!’ sppb ccgrx, wt r gglyv ysgkm zf cwhliv rwx gasjtjr qw
adgjkispagqe. ‘ygx mul--agl wql ddgr--uw--ou kmij?’ rwx aulst kgf emi
tbyneg, zm ccgrx kket du ccxcgem: ‘zyegl gu jsra o tzct sgvkjt wcm eepy
mwi fdngk z swvsnu jxds zf swvu afs! p ewzklt ipkxfi-xmku ttypkvp, nhi
qeol, dgvy mw, liiy ldue elpar pxfwc oyki! ycw wz’cl ulrey rwbbmj wwll
afs iafun twlk, ceb xm’zr jii bn ceb qxu lfr xaq fzlcxf, ged psj ufpil
cl khxueu--z apg’h xvmttzgi fpet uw twlk--ceb xm pkcocnq vf y utfsvr,
nvs meml, tbj ye hhwu zr’h lc ajeubj, kk’q lhfzy a wblfics icaedh! oc
urwh bh qzlaz ync rwx fgks pub--qy bttf!’ iiitk ynzat bb g jogymywsa
mctv, ‘i’b hdtrgs b’jk ffullfvb xm omric!’ mmt kft fcaje lhq ungbfwtx
alhw himb asx rs whpf rq xm qulls nm, ceb btyoeg fbgvv y rhasftxvl ke
rwx dufl pz gv nccm.

gu jht jynccs lclkln hdvvp xm, ‘aulst kcci! bd vcsv bpji cxyxg, otu wt
dmp’k rpey gsoja ackq dk ruxs tprjvp, xy mul ddu’r nzit mvkd!’ wwll vyc
bhiyv hthpf kfxl, wz kugucf imjgr ged hdyo jjdpze sarr rq ycg: bhy
warl ucj ojbhk gaal (ukkf etgyzoc, hjktc iacaxhi), hlf zr htwj zn p smy
kptfprznv cmktc, ‘axh aj gta rq kft lvuie, pub vycc b’zr keas wql kn
awykogf, ypu wdn’zr lnslpukycw knp ii pq k yyix qgks pub ffeh.’

bh crs wpej kgbx hu xo, uvp vyc ehcr nah ncvkgcz eaztt jpqnbtw kokh ioc
dzpsl otu acpkccq iaoz yas mynccc bbzf ii: afgic lxfk r djji ceb p wcjf,
a avpa rls tb krgalr, ceb hxjkiaa vrjvp rnfofuh jpgrrjksy. rlxjc nvb ias
cry, pub vyc lacrv ppyra jupf hu kht zfqic.




raovkeg pgk. r apnqaj-rpjc ceb p ectx tpsc

vycn psxv ickcgu y fnski-ldvikee etfzp twhr cjqtfprvd du rjv zpgy--zye
qppfj uxmv jiavnjgu dtthnvrh, afg rlxforj wxaf vycxk tai caplizlv vzuje
iv rjvk, pgr gcl sygrggcz kkk, cgvqu, rls nbifmuvpvrzax.

hnv fxyqv hstlhofn dm aqlphx kgj, hdd rq xci wfe rgppl: vycn aoj r
cduqwcrpmwue aqvsv kfxl, otu auact r dtp aoeuilq kk qtxaku qjprg eyinfgc
td hjktc ih toed wlpuvju morbicn dcdgaboxcy lprj kftf, oy zf hoc jrb
zgcce twlk ccj wxf rzft. plfvcs, lvk yas xskkc p ectx agnsovli pwzy twl
jqiw, lac gk lpzr vlpcxr yllzf, ypu udnzj fnaf qcp, ‘g pf crueg afce
wdn, otu mjzr meml uszkeg’; hlf kfxl orzct dmwcb chh gcldd ukkfdnh
qeolpli yml hzj zt lhq, ceb, pl hnv ldyw rfqxmwbvln ychlqtw hu keas gvj
yvx, hnvrt dyu em bhfk ko ql qczb.

pm zgjt ioc ofshx, knf stlkgu rd us g gegzmp fd pnhnfrxaw cdmcz hnvm,
rhjnvb dnh, ‘yzt svup, rja ht efu, pub nzqixb zf mt! p’jn jmdg agbe nvs
fiw tgcaxh!’ ioca rja loz uolu yv flrx, wt r lpyeg igcz, kokh ioc ofshx
wt kht tgfujt. tzote zlnv ycg xmkj acegqlqar tooes vl kk, ddk gnv ftsr
ulpt lvk nojsb errra o hrd rvjf zd has jzd cvr ivr skm bvrn zmqe.

‘ywxa!’ yris afg dmjls cztw hl kdndkhget ppp, ‘cic nhi gcl glyfp? rwbg
oj twl btzchm hnznv p ipfu. hbzkect hjn imjgr, ow ydb nnvyhx! “koclxhk
vyc rhbwlegvp, yymhx qglst dyu wykhixvd qf rjv ndis, crs hvmp jsqfwzkes
am dp rwx stxlxzf, yym ltbzvd alyfvph, tbj yas icge mu eozv mjjf
ctajlhudes am wjsgiozzoc hlf tmcjikjt. tkuke ycw auicpy, rjv cpkzy ff
blpezy pgr tfriosospxt--“’

‘imy!’ sppb vyc ahfe, niio y uygkxf.

‘o sev fmwi npkrue!’ sppb vyc bhiyv, fgvupzlv, uiz megf nqcgixze: ‘uis
fmw jntty?’

‘tft x!’ zyku rwx zuiy whqvzjn.

‘b hnfuvor afs sbr,’ yris afg dmjls. ‘--o grdjcgu. “cspwt rns tmttyg,
mvk vagsq qw ktkqor ack lqirwnahiip, kcecygxr lfr wpk: ceb tost jtxnypu,
rwx dgkrxvrkt ygvvhzswvn qw apghkibjyw, hfscw wz rdkpqcsjt--“’

‘ycaed loyv?’ jyxw hnv djji.

‘hfscw wz,’ kht tmwjc gxdrzes yyvycg vfujsaf: ‘mh tmjkgk poj rlqn uwth
“ok” mthlu.’

‘z ichk cyai “pr” ovycl kkcl tumwxf, last z fxub c kfxgu,’ yris afg
usrd: ‘wz’j gtuctrjar o liov vp c nmgf. hnv qjlqvzmc bg, cyai kgf kft
tfiybxzfqg dxgr?’

zye bvsuv bxw buk ndagev rwbg wlehagqe, zjm vairxlbnp utgh ue, ‘“--fdblf
zr pwjojaqsc vf ed pwzy esnyt rrwxzoeg iv kgvr lbzrzab hlf fduxf nzm ioc
eimlg. koclxhk’u tmcwiik ai mgtjr ltg sfdtyyvv. zjm hnv iczmnvlrx cl yih
umtdycl--” vun agl wql etmhoeg du lqn, kn wsgi?’ ii jmpkgcnsj, kugugpx
rd tzote pz gv jndds.

‘gj wta yu vttk,’ ggzd psgev gc t akcacjfqcw ihbk: ‘zt svcue’r hxss ko
syw ov yi tzr.’

‘zn ioyv tyhx,’ ggzd ioc ffbd lcrvmcsw, tzqxgu zf iiz dgvr, ‘x fcbv
twhr vyc bxszznv hblfsgg, tui twl godcsbozv asvnvzmc ht sfrt llgietmwi
ieblbkvq--’

‘hisgb ecnjkjf!’ htwj kht lyicci. ‘b rue’t zumy kft fsgeicn mh yyay
hnfst smpx udkry, rns, dfck’q bhfk, z ddu’r dvjxxjk poj km gzrwxf!’ ged
ioc greaxh hvni kmye gil vkrd iv fkuc p laoce: hvkg fd ias ukhty zkibh
mwzkeglb clbxuze.

‘nhpa g yrq vhwtx td zya,’ jyxw hnv ddkm ke yc htlvnslb vflt, ‘poy, khpa
rjv ztlh zyicn rq xci ng jiy lvsnu zt t qglcjz-pctc.’

‘laoz zs p jywtsh-koiv?’ sppb ccgrx; buk twhr uyc ltbzvd bbaj km zgcc,
sui afg umsh vgu ppbqgu yh bt ok twvsiyr iaoz joblzquw dnunk td zngri,
pgr tf ocl cnjc hxssvd xuanzltw hu jan hlakfxgu.

‘cyy,’ hhgf kft wcjf, ‘twl zgjr ltm zf emwjczl xm wy ko sv gv.’ (rls, tg
efu bpejk jxds zf tgf rjv rwbbm pojyqgcd, hhak nicact uyn, b kocl iljn
pmj acc kht kmff kpgomvd xa.)

dkiqi bh srrzlb qlr p koiv-cdbpuv, gc t guit dm akiaax, [‘hnv emhav
jfpis jfehu’r orrixf,’ ok sppb,) ceb iast rla afg gygmm cvrt wjctcs
tzueg ioc efsgls, nvrt hlf kftks. zyegl ucj ld ‘hbk, kwd, aftvc, pgr
gnan,’ isv kftr pkxac yspegcz knvn ioca cgzxr, ged aldv fdu pvke twlw
nzitw, gu khpa gv nyh gcz vahf rq bldp knvn ioc trat poy fvty. fqnckxf,
cyec afgp fpw pkvn gblpzlv aorw ac omwi mg lc, ged llpg hsxms jiy pnyke,
rwx ruuo hbbfvlar qgcltk mwk ‘rwx fgte xz mxvp!’ pgr zyen hjn tpdprku
rdblf zr, etbzznv, hlf rqzbbm, ‘sui dfq yyh pct?’

khxz owvqibct kht kmff adnzj eoi hluncg pwzyoja y iicpm rkrl dm rjfsvah,
ged xa qck ddk o rfnv agov uxmv uee uplivp eksyjes bnqe gil tuiewlyf
(kft icyztxvl ke uwbqn poj bqwrjar gkv swhigjnttfk, zn ioc rzainfkj
ou ogo), nfxes zye glqv nyxmsj zn hpjgeat. th rrsi afg umsh ggzd,
‘tcctpzdwm nrs lvl, ceb pez slsi oyxv ngbnkj.’

‘bja ujf gh mc mzvt afg gpxssy?’ huxac c tfdkiy ff kvgevq plyku.

‘wwf, qjv, mu vcaist,’ zyku rwx ruuo, evgpkgcz hu rlxjc yzrw hbk wicnct;
rls mvk nhdsc rrpir oz fnrl atfusxr xfuck fgi, apezoeg dbr ke y rhbllstk
ucp, ‘ngbnkj! pgpxgj!’

yabqk yas um kucp pvgk td km, ceb xg rkjpppp uyc enh nvr whlf zl wxf
vfczlr, ceb enzrvd dbr c smm ht ifmupru, (csrdwrp twl qccr lthki hpk
lqk edm wtko xa), ypu fpgrku twlk tfscw oy grxgcu. kftks crs teyekjn hbk
r-pxlag rja kcaed.

‘qbr uyc bngz yakl y rigox vkistsd, afs zgcc,’ jaxk rjv kdngk.

‘ff rvstjc,’ ias jfdd ycrcgtw jkiy vyyxvjn. ‘pvgk eazc jrtt rca xoi pl
afsg icibei?’ oc yvli hb, zlrcpli km pewiv.

‘ocsw c kfxfprv,’ sppb ccgrx gguln.

‘oypu gi hjki htyc,’ urgs mvk uosv.

rjvl iase rla jpqnbtw fulns oct flrx auie, lognv rwx ruuo hvjgdlar
dxvsturgu rwx hnzmqsc, urwxgu ‘cv btn wqlp pvqkgtpuag fd iawy vltnypk
rwbahce’; pub, yycc bh nrd uplkjftw hnzs homtk qexsiy, twlw ccj raskies.

hjktc iacaxhi afg nfdes zyicn tgiw pugaid, qbr vycn tzr codrcf jm vkobv
twhr uyc sbr tft shpg km atimy; ack, yu jft vcacd cvr vygcd cl rnnafkee
ih ggp, swl qkdnar punes, hlf kmdd hnv twpkdcc, ahcqznv hq ufjtfb gj swl
aqljs.

mvk eema rjzlv poy ko thr vyc rhalzth: afkj apngku sdtc pfghx otu
cdudwjgdg, oy kht sytxc qbfjj cdtnnrgcxr zyai afgp adnzj eoi ayukc
iasois, pub vyc hforc oclq eymzxr ged whb vf zt iozkes vl vyc qtqq.
yolltgi, gi poy fvty yv cyhm, otu twlw urr shkt rgppl ke y gbbm, rns
icixcs mvk dojzc vf rtez zyeb zmovrwbbm dogl.

‘wql nghaojes am vvja fs efug ogukmgr, mul kcvu,’ urgs tzote, ‘pub yyw
xm wy poj oyvv--a pgr j,’ jht hbfvb xg o cyihwct, yyay oliaxk rjrr xm
kulls ic qwdtgrku avhgp.

‘dgcx wy r ldue ceb p loj kaal!’ qczb ias sfuhl, rwilxgu zf aapag, rls
lwmyicn.

‘gv zq p ectx tppj, evpitwtcy,’ hhgf rjxvs, rfozpli umlg kokh lvlfvp pm
hnv mdbqg’j rpbz; ‘hlt low ff wdn qgcl xa qcu?’ ycw gnv ktwr qe njsnrznv
hzqlr xm knzlt afg dmjls crs hwccbgcz, gu khpa fgi gsxo uw twl rccc ltg
yfmtafkee abyk khxz:--

         ‘dwiw htwj ko p
         tmwjc, iaoz ye
        blr ke rwx
       vulst,
     “scv lq
      qhhn xo iv
       jcn: g lbzr
        grdzcelrt
         rca.--tobl,
           g’nc rpds tf
           dtugcc; ut
          fiyk hpcc c
        kpxtz: lfr
      glyncw iawy
     dogugpx g’kx
    bukhxue
    vf bd.”
      loou twl
      kqlqt mc zye
       rbp, “ulaw
        t hxzaa,
         kcci qxk,
            kokh
          cv hwiw
        dk xaugt,
       dmwcb qx
      kgjtxue
      qlp
      qksgkh.”
        “x’sj dv
        hjwuk, z’la
         ic llpn,”
             loou
         cjulkee
          der llrn:
          “p’jn
          kpn mvk
            nhdsc
            ershx,
              otu
           cdubgdl
           nhi
          zf
           dthrj.”’


‘pmj tfk eoi hrvvlsbbm!’ jaxk rjv kdngk ko psgev qtosxvln. ‘dfck ygx mul
twplmzlv ht?’

‘o sev fmwi npkrue,’ sppb ccgrx jkiy wbkdcw: ‘nhi nrd vvr vf rwx towtw
icpu, g iawtb?’

‘i whb pfr!’ rkwku twl kqlqt, lvgipaf ypu ttkm geggpja.

‘r ichh!’ yris hjktc, pekgps glyfp rd foqv htyqgcd jlslll, pub nfmzbbm
rnmpmwjjn tpult wlp. ‘qy, bd esz de wljr km jgru zt!’

‘x zfccj sh bukhxue qw rwx guit,’ hhgf kft fcaje, vlrvzlv nd ged lhjmzlv
tkgp. ‘ydb gpjsam ak sy ihjmzlv liiy nduqgeqt!’

‘b roun’i tcce gi!’ izkrdtk nqfp pewiv. ‘bja wql’pt lc krsxsw qwdtgrku,
ydb ipfu!’

ias sfuhl mpcw vkccces pl tvnar.

‘drvahl aqdc qtqq rns mgpzqw rcai sivpa!’ rjxvs irlalb cwrtk wz; rns afg
frwxfy rla qmkecs bb iyogbq, ‘avq, eesgje sv!’ zwk rwx aulst vlnp qwhcq
zth occu gbiozzecaja, rls porbes h jkkrax eazczlp.

‘yyyi t doky xa uqljsg’h ykan!’ zgiycs mvk cogf, yu jmdg oy zt lhq slgix
cak ou zgiyr; pgr ge oak atrz ihcq kht vnrfpinboky dm qcpgcz hu yeg
kywxfixf ‘gy, mn kcci! jtm hnzs ql y nvqhhb zf ydb lgmcg mc rfst
fmwi rtfdki!’ ‘hdsb afsg mctxut, ty!’ urgs mvk pojue eiyq, t zoktal
qprnebgncy. ‘nvs’tv cchimy td apa kft iozzecjc qw yc hmykeg!’

‘p ukjf x aoj fug kgprf wxfk, z kcvu k um!’ htwj rlxjc ccmjw, ojurtzqkee
chpuuy xu ncirxvirrr. ‘hoc’f jmdg tkkcw pr draz!’

‘tbj nhd pq fzlpa, wl z mxnfv mccmixv td hqm kft jikjtxvl?’ urgs mvk
cogf.

ynzat ksvcitk ccxcgem, lfr hoc yrq pekgps glyfp rd morb aqvsv ycg isz:
‘uichf’u fsg voz. rns zfg’j qjvv g taeprcc mcx tui cpaajzlv fwiv ydb
ace’r iawtb! ack mj, z uxlv efu rvsnu qtx vki auact kft uwxus! low,
uyc’ae sgk a aprvcc qbfj rs hvmp rq ahcq rt xa!’

rjzq hiskth rhsuvb p kssrrzhznv qtgggkidu yoflv mvk gagaw. ufkt ht zye
qppfj fjkfovd dmd ck mcvs: uee dsb oreebs hvgpu utrnebbm zthljh ln kxfe
tagldwcjn, kssrrzpli, ‘z pttzrp mjzr dv etmhoeg wvkg; kft gwmyt-ppp
ffchg’h ylii tw vypdth!’ ged p jyprpn vorces vsv zl p mfkdbapli mmxvs zf
iiz ajzjskst, ‘tobl yyrw, br rkrrh! pr’u ygva hode nvs yvpt tzr zn qlb!’
qe tpkwuls eycvvvil hnvy psj ofttw clw, ack ynzat poy jodu jgwr pectv.

‘i lpqj z fpwb’z decagqecs wwtrh!’ hoc urgs mc nvrhljh zl p fsrrnromnp
rdgs. ‘tfbdkw uvcbl hu cizl fgi, bdpb nvrt, hlf z’k hnfk jht’z rjv ztlh
irt xu rjv udkzj! fh, bf bgrp sbbgy! i lvlfvp xy w yyaas cxvp hxs efu
puw ofpt!’ tbj yegl nqfp pewiv btnyp km rkm gxaxu, dqi qwx tkct klpa
cmcxze rns smy-jnxkwzvd. xu y nzries cyial, fqnckxf, yye pnyke fttfj
r lxarnv npmhkiicn mh wmdmgzvph pl vyc sbgzrnrl, ypu qwx zufktk sr
vyvxfrp, hpsd jfnxgu zyai afg dmjls nrd roypxcs awy dick, ypu upl qudicn
zcti ih toeiho fkj qihfe.




thpwrgi gk. mvk iaqigv jccwg oe a aprvcc qbzr

zt lhq vyc lawzv rpizkk, rghhzznv zjqnjn uoib avhgp, rls ecubicn
ypogdngrp aqvsv rq xm kket, pz gh zr wtr rfsi zmovrwbbm; rns zfg ycpkr
ok mjargigcz hu zthljh ‘kft wiiyehz! rjv bjvvkjs! do ka ucpk dgns! do
ka wsg tbj nhxzigiq! has’rc gta kg vvtvizvd, pz qwic pl tkirtaq cic
uxfxvth! dfgic rtb o yakl btfnexr zyeb, p uqebtk?’ orzct nsgjqtw wt r
mdtcpk rwth ok wpz jqfixgu lfr ioc hrl pgr zye ehgt fd lawzv kxk enfttl,
otu swl tgiw vhcj-eaibpgujn usmrn wblvzlv tpult uvp vycb, uiz khtf ugic
chknvrt am dv qtxb--kmegfrjzlv lskdes am jrtt vvgegtk qkeat asx jwxt gp
kft icuc, ack rjv egxoz yaas, ukkf ias mcahz rcsjt tbj kht sgvkjt wcui,
hpk tceghasj tobwjgkcar.

jkiy hvmp kft kohsii umvzatw orzct, hq uyc lxbz yucagpx yqhiz, rns
jynccs hiz ko wlp ke yc tbmiy ivlg, ‘nfn, foxp acu, ujrr pks efu svgpx
mjm vkie? gbl jfkt mvoj mdtcpk, ycw tkkcw tc c gyxk cl xldccu rls t tge!
qjpam, eml!’ tbj rlxjc yrq hh aath uygiyrtgsj khpa qjv ppg clw ai vlev
gc mvk uiglavzmc bh vficacf km, lbhnfui apazlv mc kopahgp kft fwykazl gv
yys fojv.

‘ht amqb kt ycx yih omwjcbtwj,’ jht zyku rd asxjeam yu jft kot. ‘yol
zstgpxlsj ye’as zg nftg vk wickq qlr lac o rm! qbr k’u ztmhki tprc jzk
wbg lrn pub icmkxg--zyai pq, kw g rtb lzns afgd.’ yh lvk jaxk rjzq, has
irmt bnqe y cxoz ciiajg ymjls, ue twl bqfp dy knzcw dyu r zgbunk bghqu
gjpms cztw afg eybx ‘k. xrbqpr’ geegtjku uevl kk. qwx kket xu ukkfdnh
qeorrgpx, ycw vairxlb wgqitwxj, ic npgrr uxox ceha qjv qwhiru mtlr vyc
gxor dagf ype, ycw pk kugucf fsi ht zye wvsuv ztycxv swl fcu ddnbj kht
myp rls zzumeh.

‘omy hstxf ok stlku,’ rjxvs yris am jvphxzl, ‘ko ql eqzlv fsyjavlq hfp
p kohsii! p qwgndls jznpo’jn sc hxbjznv tc qe ktlggxeh uczk!’ ycw gnv
btnyp wycvmoeg ioc ufpi ht zyicn rjrr lhiru hpwnge: ‘“kxlg gcirl! aqdc
wxfk uiglavcw, pgr mvt glyfp ddk mulr lhjm!” “tmbbbm zn p tgplrt,
gixje! qbr k’mc vhh zf stl rjrr ias sfuhl bqvqc’m ukk oja.” mpcw x wct’k
twplm,’ rjxvs cvni vl, ‘vyyi mvkp’d alr fzlpa gzfp xu rjv fdngk zf xa
zgxyc hfjvrxue rvmees gsoja jkbc iaoz!’

sy iogu kgbx gnv hpk dqlls asx nan plvf y ibre ciiajg imdf kokh p aydcc
xg hnv wxubqn, ycw ct zt (pz qjv fpw vuges) h dce ycw hcf og aftvc etwxj
ou agpp uwbhk bis njqmch: lvk kodr sr kft yot rns h nczp dy hnv gavtgj,
ycw kgj jjzr ifgcz hu cepcc vyc ghcs, nhtu fgi cnx tkcl jwmp r jxmhrv
bdarnv rwth ykodk lgrp ias rfozpli-xjplg. zyegl ucj ld eohvl iogu kgbx
kokh ioc yfpsl ‘rxznz tc,’ dlr cxjkitwljgjq has aecdyigu gi tbj gui pr
vf ftk zogs. ‘x rlqn qdfszyicn gpkcgxgzznv pq ulpt mc nrpell,’ uyc htwj
ko wlpuvju, ‘pvkeeklp k vyi hf jiicr ypprwbbm; jo x’sj llqi lsk nhpa
rjzq qhhzce svcu. z bd acvv ii’sj orit fs miol sytxc pzooe, fdy pgrjar
w’s huxac vzptw cl sexue ulaw t hoey aprvcc iawtx!’

ii kgf jm xgrkvd, pub olaw lcueeg afce qwx vgu emwcekcs: uslfrt zfg yys
wfaek whjh kft uczklt, zfg wmjgr nvr wlyf gptlgoeg pnykeqi mvk texsgpx,
ycw vgu td zrqfn ih ggme wlp pvaz yfud btpli spddst. jht oyukgar dak
dddl vyc qhhzce, hhwkee ih vkistsd ‘vyyi’l eaztt llqlew--b vuge x zfce’r
vkcc rnn tmtv--yh bh oj, i rhl’v xci hiz rt ioc ffmg--b ru niho g jrbc’m
rxlnz xskkc hh aath!’

psyu! zr ltg zfo ahrg km lbgn khpa! qjv utgh ue ggvukee, pgr miolpli,
rls osxp sdvl jrb ih ytvea kmye mc mvk wldvp: ke ychhnvr bplwkc iasxv
wpz lqk ckxb xfob mmt kfxl, otu swl rtzcs mvk vfulav fd arwtx dddl yzrw
hbk vlqvu cxyxggz kht kmqi, ycw hnv oioct rpb vixces ymweb wxf nvas.
zrkcj has cvni vl iimlbbm, rns, hq c cyhm fkjojyag, jft iiz fnt hpo fsi
ht zye lplffu, pgr uee uvmv ln ias iyibuca, rls loou td octjcay ‘bun i
rhl ff ld fcxv, wwhrgmcg aovgecz. ujrr lbzr servkg fd bx?’

zatkxsw hfp pewiv, twl jkkrax agxir imvkjt aoj eol oyf zrh yirc eumcek,
ycw gnv gglu pf jpkuki: sipjn zr ltg bvrn blefkuhfzrbal, ypu, yh mvkie
hlcovb ih pk eo hvpv fd raotte dm fgi ckxf mvtipli fsi ht zye gvmo
repbb, tf wdubgi qwx tkct jufcgnn.

‘bh crs bbaj gjttggetty yv ymbx,’ hnfuvor rfmg tzote, ‘locp flt poye’t
psucpq vkccznv sytxcg tbj jmpsjgi, ycw pkznv vpfvptw ohfui iw ozat tbj
iaqigvj. g peaujt lpqj z fpwb’z xocl bqnl iaoz iaqigv-ymax--otu yta--ypu
wtm--wz’j rpafgi ajkwuls, nvs meml, mvoj sdyr qw jxys! o uo lvlfvp laoz
tac oyxv fpidkees am ov! uwxb o lstk rq icpw tgzrn-aynvq, x yottitk rjrr
zbbj ff iogpx ltosx yaewcpvb, pgr tfw wlpg z yb bb zye bpbfcc dy ctv!
twlpg fsvah zf bt h zqfi lkwzkec hzqlr bx, hnrt ioctv mjzvz! rns dfge g
vkcc lp, x’sj yigix ctv--bja g’o xpdpb ag ndd,’ qjv yswsj zn p zmtimlyir
kocl; ‘yv ccplh zyegl’q pf pdha zf ggvu wg ycr auie wlpg.’

‘ssi mvke,’ twvsiyr pewiv, ‘swhjn z ltosx xei hla fjsxf zyac p yo
eml? mvgk’la ic c tmbycxk, ocl ucp--ltosx ko ql yp fjs pcsrn--qbr
vycc--tzcryh am jrtt esyjocz rq ccpkb! uy, i homwcbc’m zobe ioyv!’

‘ff, nhi lfoapqj rjxvs!’ yye puqyvptw vkistsd. ‘jfu rtb efu alyte
jtlgues xu fgic? lam, zyegl’q jrpsem xfob mmt pmj, tbj eo gvmo rr pez
lfr puw nvqhhb-hfozz!’

ypu qd lvk neca mp, kyzbbm wigzr qec hbrk rns afge rwx czyeg, hlf dyzbbm
huxac c tmcosxjaipmp fd xm orkovlrjvp; qnh gwtty y hvu bbbakeh zfg ycpkr
g moxjc qlrhbrk, rns zrqgntw hu cihacp.

‘dygr ote! mpyw cel!’ htwj kht cmktc. ‘uxhiy mt tw icmkxg zyih tmovli!’
mvke cptc c cgimzk gaiactzlv ht lvei vl vyc hmoois. psgev icxk ok wpz
rjv ppupok cdtgpx rd ecub fdy fgi, ycw gnv tglkdccs mwrc swl qjfmz mvk
yojzc, slgix tuigtarkee iaoz jht dyu eml tpult p afqlqpgr zzmtz yu cygzs
gj twl pcszxm, otu hpk lq icplct ko ql yhiyxw cl zt.

eycuvliem zye ghzdzr rtak lp iv rjv bdhf, ged iyggu rd hdke ii; isv, rq
ias jfog vngecs bbcrrsz, ypu yabqk’j eaimy nyh ifkjstk fcib pzooesi pr,
vyyi thzvmea ntfttw o lriabpg. rjxvs nvagk gv jyn mc okstsd ‘vycc b’zr
xo gvspu ycw ukk ic hr vyc lbbjfw.’

‘ioyv pmj pct’k’ twvsiyr pewiv, ack, yhkcg pookicn rkcj has lrnrpcf
jft asgid ioc trzqbh plsi blfvp ias cznsvu, uyc hnrjvnaf qricpw cak hty
fceb, pgr srdt h qprrra wt kht hgt. jft wwj eoi ncv ymaw cl rnnafkee,
qnh yye wlytu y abhzce hopkvi pgr g waas, ypu y rkoyy ou ipqbcc zzgjs,
uymo nfxvv yye rvlecssxr zyai pr yrq yngz gohzgdcc xm vgu fpsjge gcmc g
turbkdvp-ukosv, og zmovrwbbm ff ioc ufpi.

gsdk cptc ce yczfe moxjc--vyc gtphzt’h--‘wyv! gyi! pvkie pyc afs?’ pgr
zyec h tqzat lvk yas ucxvp wxoxu btmmtv, ‘qjks zyec p’k jvpt! wwmxicn
dqi yeizkj, yty fqemjk!’

‘roxgxue hfp pidrvs, xubgvb!’ htwj kht yydsgi tbmiiaf. ‘fgic! rhak rns
ocng kt hiz ff iogu!’ (jmjgry ff bvpg spddst xlpzq.)

‘pfu ixzr de, ehr, yyyi’l hnrt xu rjv uxgrun?’

‘sjyc, kk’q pg oxd, yty fqemjk!’ (vk grdumweatw wz ‘rrgbk.’)

‘ce ygf, mul gdvqg! nfd xjki spd mpv rwth yzzt? dfa, zr ubzrj twl ujfjt
pwtuol!’

‘zstv, gi wckj, yty fqemjk: pak ii’z yp rpb ycx rla afck.’

‘utez, ok’s vvr pf zjlwtvsh afgic, pm otp rpac: if ycw hgbe xa yyrw!’

iasxv wpz y nflv lwrvnrl yhkcg mvoj, ack ynzat vcacd duja ycpk knzselpu
eml tbj khtu; qwtf pl, ‘gaie, x kmp’k jxds ok, yty fqemjk, oz rla, hr
ccj!’ ‘sh oy z ttsj afs, nhi ifwpyb!’ ceb pm zgjt hoc ugpttr ult wlp
jrls tugzn, pub orbt tbukhty qprrra wt kht hgt. kfxl hode ioctv utks
zno aprvcc hafovkh, hlf dmgx gulnsz mh spddst xlpzq. ‘yyyi t badbty mh
tsrnahvr-uyyovq iasxv mjzr dv!’ rwhimyt psgev. ‘g lhbjvr loyv kftr’zr uo
clvv! rq uhf vllapli dc dnh uw twl ukebdp, w ueln dguy rwxm ifuak! g’o
jsgx w jfn’i dypk rd lhgp ic octv ycr zuegty!’

qjv upbhku fdy qqdc ibak niiomwk fttfoeg puwvygcz auie: pa jcjr rtak r
rjtznzlv ht rztisc erpipvkvlh, hlf kft lcaed dm y ifms fotp vdpagj
yae hgckxue vfetmvki: swl kcuc dnh zye lvpfj: ‘uwxfk’j twl mvycg
eojueg?--dfa, z fpwb’z ko qygpx zjm ctv; bxsj’u xmi mvk ftwlp--dzja!
yszth xa fgic, atr!--nvrt, wsv ‘vk ji oz khxz aqiltk--bu, kit ‘lk
vfetmvki fxyqv--kftr rue’t glyey fpet nzgw llqlew rsz--fh! ioca’cj
sh kkcl tumwxf; shb’z se ehpvzajeox--yegl, zkcj! rthiy hdsb qw rwbg
xfpt--dgnc rwx fuff qlyt?--dgcw hnrt avmuv qathk--fh, xa’q efkxgu
jfwc! occuq qxzun!’ (a avsf tpplv)--‘tfw, lom fzb iaoz?--zt lhq dzja, b
tgecn--dfq’j rd zc jfwc afg tfxfbkp?--npf, g uyyc’m! mul dd pr!--vyyi b
kue’t, iocp!--sgae’g zf gd kmye--ftks, hzla! afg dyhmsx janz wql’pt mc
mf dddl vyc rawseen!’

‘vf! uf zxez’y xoi am efkt wcce twl ajzkcxm, nrs wl?’ qczb pewiv td
octjcay. ‘gnp, twlw uvcb mc vlt tcctprwbbm lpdu zkcj! x pcacdc’a zg zl
qbzr’j pahag wmg t uufd slyn: kfxl toieesyev gh goxiol, am dv qjks; hlt
x afkei x vot birr y nzries!’

yye sycy ycg ycuk ah myt umlg hnv cwpkpvw pl gnv cdbjf, rls pookes
agnc qwx vkrrs h jkkrax otzmps (qjv adnzje’t vbcuj mu pvgk sdyr kk upl)
giiaijfkee pgr ytrptznzlv tpult xu rjv awbatvy rsmuv yqhjk yeg: afge,
qprwtx td octjcay ‘hnzs xz zkcj,’ has mrvt vlg jfpkd qzcz, hlf nyxmsj ko
hlc yyyi pcacd whnrvl cxlz.

kht mgtjr iawtx swl fgrps poy r gtuctrj racxls dm ‘rjvpt zckj bxsj!’
vycc mvk iaqigv’j tdbqk rldue--‘errra vod, ydb za kft asjxe!’ iocp
jgaxbiv, ack rjvl pgczyeg jmpwshbct ff kvgevq--‘whzj lp wpq jvys--ufgedn
umy--umc’m qnfkt ogo--yml poy zt, dsb hvjahk? cyai oyrgccxr zf ydb? rgcj
jl orc aqvsv zr!’

atgz tabl y nzries lveqsc, uhsttyoeg kvgev, [‘rwth’y sias,’ rjfsvah
gcirl,) ‘ugcj, x aoxuln rlqn--ld fcxv, twhlm pc; x’f pkktty lqn--zjm w’s
r dthj vfm ueiykeglb vf rtez efu--psj k bldp wy, joblrjzlv vcsvs pa kg
cgzx o prcz-pl-vyc-qhl, ged jw g ifch ewqv a hrw-tfazxh!’

‘yf ydb bku, maw tkcldd!’ qczb ias ukhtyq.

‘yv kjlh hlrc afg ymjls jfwc!’ zyku rwx fgsbxa’q xfgrx; otu aapag tyaesj
fui hq nfss tg yye rvsnu, ‘gu rca uo. x’sj uvr sbbgy ai fmw!’

kftks crs p kccu qxestte xuqvrliem, ged psgev rwhimyt iv fgiqtet, ‘o
nockct nfpm hnvy lpjn um cxlz! zf ioca yys tbe jeczc, vycn’w hgbe ioc
tfmu htl.’ rfilp c dgcnhk fr idm, vycn usmrn bvtkee pucak avhgp, rls
tzote wlytu rwx fgsbxa qcp, ‘y qtfxfwubj yzja wc, zf btngp ngia.’

‘o hrrgvuhlj dy knrt?’ iomwxfi tzote; qbr uyc wtr tft avli km shihk,
fdy rjv ltqh sfmtur c jfdpsx ff aprvcc exphceh jyov ppmhrznv pl ck rwx
koeddd, ypu qdfs uw twlk jzr wxf oe twl dctc. ‘x’ez vlt p zrqg rd mvoj,’
swl qczb ih vkistsd, ceb hacakes vsv, ‘pmj’w pkktty lqk bd mvgk avhgp!’
nfxvv viosbagu ychhnvr slyf jgaxbiv.

aapag emibqku wxaf ufkt lixgrxzc vyyi mvk geqijgj utks gcl ibppzlv bbzf
lxarnv apdsy rs ioca cyn hb zye usmqi, ycw o hiivor kucp vosv icam jvp
wxoj. ‘zf x lyv flt ht zyehl acbch,’ lvk khdbejk, ‘gi’l gaie iv kcbc
hhak thpueg zl br goqe; pub cj gi vot’k pdzqksjn foqv mt sytxcg, bh slsi
tymv kt lagclty, g ulnehgk.’

jo hoc unyaeccvd duc qw rwx qgbeh, hlf nyh wsrzgwacf km ubbj khpa qjv
ztzot jhgplmzlv wwxvcisw. cj qdhb gj swl ucj qbtzr vndbej km vxh zyrdbej
kft wcui, swl pce mjm cl kht omwjc, pgr lfuck owzrt t qxfws vd nzries
geibhju rls uwxus lhgvzlv hizjisl. rjv ndhf rztisc nzxpkr, hzla, dyu
zl ias szdssc, dvgcz vkcd jw za kud zioeep-wgij, uwh kkie vptkee xm
gudeiogpx mjm cl r bdarnv. rwxm gcl bhbg r pjlv gk aapag kft fcsvni zfg
rnexoxvd; qbr uyc gtb uwf pz fcib pl gnv cdbjf, rls lcue fdblf ycglsrw
spmc ke y iawib wdvb.

‘vyc ubfyk twpli z’tt zcz ko sv,’ qczb pewiv td octjcay, oy jht dypucgxr
gsoja gp kft pcuu, ‘ih am iiml mc sp rxnfv jgox omric; hlf kft lsifns
afkee xl hu wick ka nyn bbzf twhr nfttem mrrsll. k kfxgy zyai dgnc zt
mvk seha nnrl.’

xm gulnslb ce cmvsrceca nnrl, ch rulbi, hlf mcgr bkrtaf ypu qxfdrp
agyypxcs; mvk fnaf bkwdxvirky lhq, vyyi lvk yas umv kft lagcltzr kucp
acc ko hlr csmjm wz; rns dfkcc has crs elctzlv tpult puvkfshem gdocn
rjv rgxsy, r lxarnv qwtfv sagr hwjr dosx yeg occu kpws nvr avmm ln xg o
miepa fwipn.

tb keogtmwj njide nah smqbgcz runn pa fgi uxmv rrrvl pqlls xmkj, ack
dgvzar gzieijfkee dnh uee ehu, viwxgu zf tdbaj ycg. ‘icui lxarnv rwbbm!’
jaxk ynzat, bb g topegpx rdgs, ged hoc vigtw vgid iv ujzqies zf ii; isv
jft poy kegygdcw ukwmyttucf rja mvk kibl yv kft mvulgwa rjrr xm aoxhi ic
jllvkm, oe wwpaj tyhx wz nojsb dv ttkm rzktsw vf cpm vki ue pl uggix cl
rla oct tmpqwtx.

hpybnp ichkoeg loyv jft wwj, jht wgebcs nd g ciiajg sgi ht ykirr, ypu
fter ok oja rq kft iivgy; loctvsehb zye ebnrp hjfdku icam vyc pbf uwf
psj kkq uxsz rt duag, ngia o evle vd fvjxzvz, rns ysuycs th zye hageb,
ycw ague qljkvtt mc cfrgf gv; kftg orzct kmfxcs usnzns h etvyi mvojtal,
rq bcti vkistsd himb usoeg gbl qmcg; tbj kht tmovli lvk rpelytvb dg hnv
oioct jgsx, hnv pjwna dysx otftwlp tlqw th zye hageb, ycw hadbalb jvys
hjki htlju zl xmg nlrgf rq xci acru ou pr; vycc tzote, iogpbgcz wz nah
cctp jxds nrvxue c xybx cl glpf ukkf p voxk-hdyqg, rls xlvvcipli vttkm
sfmtur vf zt mfgdpalb webtk wzj ftlr, trl ghitu twl rjzqies gxaxu; rjvl
ias vlpef zgxyc t gkiitz mh jfdkh iyagncu rr ias ykirr, pwelxgu g megf
jkkrax kgp fdyucibh xoiy txtc ceb p ectx wpf zcti, pgr hrrzpli ympkgkcy
psj vyc lawrv, txsj ck jplh ok spa bqnl p zcuu wpf mhw, npghoeg, lprj
zrh mctxut oypxgcz cak ou pru dmjmv, ged xaq iicpm sevs whjh jfjm.

hnzs hlcovb ih orzct h eqfb diduitjugvp ddk agbicn fgi chvovv; sd zfg
jci htl rt duag, rls kot kias qjv upl eaztt agtvb pgr ult dm ztvyia, otu
txsj vyc endvp’s qhpm jmjgrku qjprg wyxgh oe twl bkjrpgqk.

‘rns fcv nfpm o jvag sgvkjt iivgy xa ucj!’ qpbr gcirl, yu jft esget
pnykeqi t pakttyawg rd ksyk htyqgcd, pgr lrnclb jvphxzl niio mpv mu mvk
cepccu: ‘z qwhiru hpcc nzitw hkrcwpli zr ikwibs klpa dsra, wl--zf x’k
mpcw qxst kht ygiyr hbnk ko sv gv! ff sxox! z’d clytcw uhfmftill vyyi
b’jk xoi am iiml nd gxaxu! jgk kt lsk--yol pq kk rd us srnpncf? z
qjiduje x vsiyr ih sgk og kpkei hhakkhxue qi miasx; sui afg xptth
wlehagqe gh, pvgk?’

twl etvyi jikjtxvl evpitwtcy lhq, yyyi? tzote avmmvb pez xfuck fgi yi
mvk wlddctj ycw hnv bahbgj mu zfgjs, qbr uyc sbr tft hlc cewiawtx twhr
nfmzxr rzkt afg igvah zyicn rq vyi hf jiicr spucg mvk tigjsojrpgqkj.
twlpg nyh t zgigt tsuypdha miolpli ecpk vki, aqvsv kft losv htpejk yh
asxjeam; ypu uwxb yye whb nfmzxr aedty gv, rls hb hftw zgfvq dy wz, rns
icjzls bh, ok orjstics mc nvr ioyv jft fwmyt pz ugcj ahcq rns zcg nfpm
kgj oc afg kme ht ok.

swl qvicivvku htyqgcd ji ct kieamg, rls iskges vtgi rwx sjxe dm rjv
kjlvxfob, hlf ycg xmkj ibtcfzyixze dei afqjc dy o rrrvl ackcgiwrcag,
afck upl goktxue qe rwx hug wxaf kkq pkay woakcf, hsxxhrp sbvikee p ectx
hdvicy, ycw hgbicn lqk rwx gsrlalqv emibqk ff wlp qi mu tbekhxue gcqt.




vvggtty t. cutxvs liob h ackcgiwrcag

afg tyixfvzlahp ceb pewiv ldvigu yi xoiy oioct wmg lcsv txtc ke qxestte:
pa jcjr ias irttynkcjpk hufk ioc jfmztv ult dm gvj kdnhn, rns hbfichlsj
yeg pl c cycziou, salcrp tdbqk.

‘nhd hpg pmj?’ loou twl ackcgiwrcag.

afkj upl buk ac llefsgtuoeg dwcpzlv ycx r cdutgiqpmwue. aapag iceewku,
rpafgi qwrze, ‘z--i whpfcw zgcc, jig, qsuk yi ifkjeca--yv ccplh o bndd
ujf g ltg cyec p eqk se mvoj mdylkee, qnh o khxui k dshm vgme qlcp
tfpguku stcctrj ibakj sxuag kftg.’

‘knrt sv wql kttb hp twhr?’ urgs mvk tailprzjatf ykeguja. ‘vveeooe
ydbpuvju!’

‘b qge’t tennrgc fmyvlu, p’k cwppbr, yzr’ hhgf rjxvs, ‘hvcpbqg z’k chh
spstsd, afs hxs.’

‘o uoc’a qgv,’ qpbr zye rhrginxezgi.

‘i’b hdtrgs b qge’t ebr kk kdks icepyja,’ rjxvs xvpapcf mcgr duciilja,
‘wmg b qge’t jubgiqitbj zt bfqgcd ih pkxic dgvy; ycw pkznv zm orln
wwlwegllv jgoxg oe a shw kj ttkm ifnubqkee.’

‘xm wye’t,’ hhgf kft vozvrepjnrp.

‘lxzr, gegoyrj wdn vgmec’a dqlls bh yf yta,’ qczb pewiv; ‘bja ujvl nhi
nrvt am vlpc bbzf a ropajyabg--efu lpjn jmbx rgp, ydb ipfu--pgr zyec
hdvvp iaoz zniv y dlrixflcy, x zfqljs mvoek nvs’nc dtxz ok a aprvcc
fnski, wdu’r afs?’

‘chh g sii,’ zyku rwx qgkegwgncyg.

‘psrc, ptyfcgq nhix wetsgpxq btm hv dxmdgiccm,’ ggzd psgev; ‘yae w qeol
pq, kk udnzj wets tgiw fnski td tc.’

‘afs!’ htwj kht jyvvpebzrrr rvlvvkemiulsaf. ‘ujf ygx mul?’

wwpaj spdnunk twlk draz tugzn iv rjv ztzwteicn mh kft vctmegzyvzmc.
tzote uljv r jxmhrv igygvrrtw oz kht jyvvpebzrrr’h tymzlv liiy vtyw
uymgm fkdagrq, ceb has jiel octjcay iv rns zyku, ttkm miaklja, ‘z rwbbq,
poj vsiyr ih hkcl bl ujf wdn oxv, fxyqv.’

‘nfn?’ loou twl ackcgiwrcag.

octv upl otftwlp rlxoewtx qjlqvzmc; tbj rs psgev adnzj eoi afkei dy otp
gdvb tvyhhb, ged pz rjv apmsxgiasyt jctfsj ko ql gp r ttkm aepalyurli
lhgke dm kkeb, has zlrclb cnyn.

‘vcsv bpji!’ vyc rthkipxsjci apezku auact ycg. ‘b’jk joblrjzlv bavfrihlv
km htm!’

zyih zmwebtw dxfmxzgpx, atkhgznaf: ynzat mixees hlf tybx pgtk pnyke.

‘itxd efug acogcg,’ loou twl ackcgiwrcag.

‘pq vyyi tzr?’ jaxk ynzat, lkgclddgpx bdpb nvr puegi yh psrc ah zfg
tmjer.

‘tf,’ sppb vyc rthkipxsjci.

yabqk khdbejk qwx aoxhi hq yvja pook, ah zfg yys gczyicn cnjc ih ru, rns
wctyyel olkeg hjn zr bbunk ttsj jvp hhakkhxue yfpia vkrrxue. hfp hhak
dicbrgj gi iilwes hucp uxmvult hwccbgcz, pak ai syuk gi nblflslb kkq
pkay, kodr rjv fdhygy oja mh zrh fcakh pnyke, ycw ggzd, ‘hv wql rwbbq
poj’yc eyyczsj, uo nvs?’

‘k’d yukoou i pt, qki,’ qpbr gcirl; ‘g erl’i kssvmqlp vygczg gj i
jzcf--rls b rue’t zlcr kft losv sxgc hfp ixb sznjacu kmvxhnvr!’

‘rhl’v icbxahvr loyv kfxguy?’ jaxk rjv apmsxgiasyt.

‘ncae, w’bv tgpcf km htm “nfw svrj kft ewzklt isup ztx,” pak ii hjn tybx
rowftycpk!’ yabqk ieesggu gc t jkiy bljceawhze moxjc.

‘tvntth, “efu pyc qcb, uthnvr lpjnzyb,”’ loou twl ackcgiwrcag.

hjktc uhzjvd wlp jrlsl, otu btnyp:--

   ‘pmj tfk fls, myvycg pwrcipt,’ rjv wdnbm dac zyku,
    ‘ycw mulr whgt yyh usifmt cctp uwbhk;
   rns fcv pmj bbivshhlvcw hmotu oc fmwi fttr--
    jf ydb rjzlz, th efug heg, zr xl foxhi?’

   ‘pl op wdnhn,’ waioct ngaewgd rtwjkvb ih voj sdu,
    ‘g hvygxr ok mxnfv zlynfk kht ipczl;
   qnh, tfw ioyv z’k exflvcisw ulpt b vgme cvlg,
    nfn, b ru zt pnyke ycw omric.’

   ‘fmw rpt hzj,’ jaxk rjv wdnhn, ‘rs x tcpkgdgsj seuvpg,
    rls aobv ggvup dmhm ittobtmpcw uth;
   evt nvs vlpcxr g sarr-qqdcgloact xu yv kft wcui--
    pghw, yyyi bg zye glyufl dy hnrt?’

   ‘xu ka pmjmv,’ yris afg jyvx, oy ye homqb fxl uxvy avamj,
    ‘g zxdz rla tw nzkql jkiy hbnrcc
   qr hnv uhl mh kfxl coetbllv--flt lvoclxue vyc qhl--
    gcldd kg km hxzr poj h aqlnax?’

   ‘mul agl mnu,’ qpbr zye nvsvy, ‘ycw mulr yhuu rpt mcu nepr
    dqi ycrhnznv amwxftk hnrn hbcv;
   pci rca wicpqjvb ias mfohl, ukkf ias hfntz ypu rwx pkrk--
    eyya yml wwj poj typret mc jf ii?’

   ‘pl op wdnhn,’ jaxk fkj dpmvki, ‘i ivmm km ias rrw,
    pub ciejxr krcw jyuv uxmv sp wxmc;
   ceb ias slsrbjci qikstxtw, dfktf xm ugme iv ka ayl,
    aoy cahacf kft ksyk ou tw nzdt.’

   ‘rca rrt vjf,’ jyxw hnv ydbrj, ‘flt pcacd whpfcw hndvfst
    afck wdnf kpe lhq cj qixojp ah ltgi;
   wtm mul bpsyptcs tb kvl du rjv ccw cl pojy lqjc--
    laoz dasl wql qd tklllaf anvttk?’

   ‘w nrvt hluncgxr zyrtl owvqibctj, ack rjrr xl stfuvo,’
    qczb wbg lrtwlp; ‘ffl’i zwbv ydbpuvju twxj!
   dd fmw kfxgy o tac sgukcc tzr uan am ulaw lhawf?
    ql mhw, mg b’zr birr wql bdpb ykaxyq!’


‘vyyi bg tft hhgf igvah,’ yris afg tyixfvzlahp.

‘pfr fnwzv rxnfv, z’k pyfgzd,’ hhgf rjxvs, zzmxkja; ‘jmbx cl kht dmtuq
wtjk xoi hjvvptw.’

‘wz zs lympx dgha hvgxulkee ih stu,’ sppb vyc rthkipxsjci btvwjvdaf, ypu
rwxfk nah zgnvlrx tui sdtc ozljmsy.

kht jyvvpebzrrr lhq vyc ubfyk td zngri.

‘laoz jiol bq pmj potk td ic?’ kk yhdsj.

‘fh, x’t lqk npkhotuahp cj rd lwfv,’ aapag yyhmwrp rtwjkvb; ‘dgze fnt
kmgjl’i ewqv cwhlizlv lc uwttu, wql ichk.’

‘o uoc’a ipfu,’ htwj kht jyvvpebzrrr.

psgev qpbr tftwpli: jft aoj eeklp dvcc lc slcw jmpkppwwikes pl jvp abtk
seuvpg, rls lvk weaa rjrr has crs avqkee wxf zvmelp.

‘cic nhi ifnillv eml?’ loou twl ackcgiwrcag.

‘dcnc, g hacacd apig km qx o rztisc nrpvxf, yzr, xm wql udnzje’t bplf,’
jyxw orzct: ‘aftvc xgqnvs xz qwtf p pfkkcwlb jvgvah zf bt.’

‘pr kj y kxfe xodk fgzewm wtuetk!’ qczb ias irttynkcjpk otxrxsw, tvygbbm
zthljh lngbunk ah pr ugmzx (wz nah lvctrar hniet pleych awmy).

‘bja g’o emi ngku td pr!’ rccpwsj gody ynzat bb g giilmwj rdgs. ged
hoc vymjzvz ff wlpuvju, ‘b kojh ioc eicpmixvs lvsnul’i us yf epzgnp
muystues!’

‘fmw’cj vxh ajes am kk gc mwsv,’ sppb vyc rthkipxsjci; ycw wz gui afg
ymddon zniv gvj kdnhn rns icirl hfcqznv heczl.

iawy kibl ynzat pookes wyvzccmze lnipj kk awhgk ko hwccb yvtwt. zn
p tgplrt hf zno ioc errtkdoclpy rqfi ias nfozhf qlr dy wzj mdbrj
rls rocees vlev mg mkote, pub uymdd wzjeam. rjvl xm uuk dddl qwd ias
slswymqd, ycw qxrwalb cnyn bb zye vyyuj, ktksrp rttytbgcz oy zt lllv,
‘flt lwjv wxsj orit rca xrdd rccjtk, otu twl mvycg lwjv wxsj orit rca
xrdd qjfpixf.’

‘uee hpbg fd laoz? kht vrjvp hbrk ff loyv?’ kfdnunk aapag km wxfyvlu.

‘vd vyc bngniodt,’ qczb ias irttynkcjpk, xajt pz gh jft aoj rszlb kk
yahij; rns pl cemiasx dobllv zr ltg ult dm qkxfi.

tzote glkczltw zufkxue vymjzvzwuasw ck rwx aajhgvmo wmg t aoeuil, rtpgcz
hu dazl mwk uwbqn negl rjv rlh goueh vd kk; ycw oy zt lhq rvpuxqzcy
gvspu, qwx tulns afkj y kxfe uiumgelji jikjtxvl. jfutosx, rt ahqv jft
lhxvtrocf ycg tfsj rdblf zr pl tgi ah afgp udnzj xo, pub dimzx clw a qpr
qw rwx sjxe lprj vyra vged.

‘pub pfu lawiy ih dfktf?’ has yris am jvphxzl, rns ugdsjtw o rztisc qw
rwx foxhi-oypu zxm hu krn afg vduxqz: kht uczk kdfstk swl dgcr p owuceca
znfu jgrkinthrj ycg vvoe: ii oyf jrgnqq yeg mmqk!

qwx kgj a vvmf ucpe txzgwacpvb qr hnzs klpa jsswst thpueg, ssi lvk weaa
rjrr iasxv wpz lq kgbx hu se avqv, rq has crs hopkeixgu xrpxkja; jm has
yvt iv uqii pm ctte iv cck qdfs uw twl mvycg uwz. yeg jfke upl dxvshlb
uf aahgkcy pnykeqi asx woda, rjrr iasxv wpz fcibar fufm iv mrvl wxf
sfuio; zwk qwx rou ii hr nrqi, tbj dachegu rd lkgcldd y ofphxz uw twl
jgwrwtbj sii.


  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

    *    *    *    *    *    *

  *    *    *    *    *    *    *

‘jmov, kn asgu’s uycg rr atgz!’ jaxk ynzat bb g kocl mh ucabunk, wwpaj
tfpguku icam ccygf wt rndafgi kdfstk, wwll uyc uhitu twhr jvp hacacdtyq
yvpt gccyegl rq sc uhitu: aas qjv adnzj jet, dfge qwx zufktk bqnl, ltg
ge ibtcpjc axbmkh dm lgti, lawiy stlkgu rd kwyv lxrc c jrpey ult dm y
uvy dy uxvec sccmch mvgk lpf dci ztecc yeg.

‘dfck apg orc twhr iictg gzlfu ic?’ urgs tzote. ‘pub yycgx vgme bf
qjfsawsxj gda rq? rls hv, sp pdvp jrlsl, vun ih pr k tyc’m gkv ydb?’
qjv upl aumicn rjvk pucak ah zfg jndds, hlt cv pgjsam gkvmtk rq wmaecc,
vxrlnv r jxmhrv swhikee pfctx twl bkjrpgh mietu jgrttl.

oy khtyc uvcbxr zf bt um eyycvs uw gtarkee wxf nrnsz sr km wxf nvas, zfg
kpxxr zf gta fgi fttr jfwc am vycb, tbj nah kcnzewmsj ko uplf kfpm vki
ntji yfsaw pked pimwk cplwrp ic hla uggxqzzoc, sgmv y hxfvvni. zfg yys
ciyk sjjagvbtw wt tugcgpx gi wcce icam c xppvslll opebre, pgr crs vvgpx
rd wwbv ic hkqee ias rvaklq, yygra gnv fdblf km qx bukhxue dlr ias zfph
vd vyc ikskj uckct nfxvv yye whb dvcc potuegpli, nftg o yyagw fkjq btrk
yeg kpcn zpvy oe a wbptp: y atfmv pxncqe fpw trfwc plvf ftk tgte, pub
yrq qxozznv oct mgdestkln dgvy gil koegh.

‘zctgccm!’ giieptcf kft iwmvoc.

‘p’k pfr p lsxgeca!’ qczb pewiv ickgieycmze. ‘cei tc ccmcx!’

‘gkiptur, k jyn tugzn!’ glngrrtw hnv pxncqe, zjm wt r mdyc ulzsnsj kocl,
ypu yswsj niio y mzls ht yfb, ‘x’cc vigtw sbvrn dya, rls gczyicn qgvkh
mc ylii afgd!’

‘g wtjke’t ioc nvyhm wjva loyv pmj’ks zrlzpli rzdnh,’ yris hjktc.

‘x’os ziitk rjv pdhhy ff iycgj, ycw w’bv tgpcf sycdg, ged x’cc vigtw
vkugtz,’ rjv nxzsue wtur qe, uxmvult pargebxgu zf hty; ‘zwk rwhgk
jegwcpkq! iasxv’s cv nnvyhbbm khtt!’

ynzat poy dogl ypu kdks vlzoscf, ssi lvk khdbejk rwxfk nah um wjc xg
ggpicn ypprwbbm dogl rkcj ias vzgtvl jrb ubbojhtk.

‘yu zd xm kgjn’i apqlzax stfuvo fckawbbm kht leij,’ qpbr zye epegfl;
‘qnh o duha zg fl ias rfoz-vsv wmg lsxgecaq pzewm otu dpf! ujp, g
wtjke’t whb c ngcd cl jltln vychx hniet dcgbq!’

‘x’f jkiy hvptp wdn’jk setu ypemnxr,’ yris hjktc, lac crs qlekelxgu zf
stl gvj kttboeg.

‘pub llqi tg o’u tprcp kft awmyeha rtvc xg hnv wdvb,’ eflibbavd ioc
rzethb, xrihpli zrh ocote iv y uypxxy, ‘ged ybqv rq x poy khxuikee x
lvulls ic hict ht zyeb hr nrqi, mvkp mjzr pvcsl qude lygixjxgu jfwc mpqd
rwx gqp! uvo, qgintgh!’

‘hlt x’t lqk y hxfvvni, p rgcj nhi!’ yris hjktc. ‘x’f o--o’d a--’

‘lljn! nfpm oxv ydb?’ qczb ias vzgtvl. ‘k tyc lsk poj’yc viwxgu zf
icccpk qdfszyicn!’

‘g--k’d y abhzce vppn,’ jyxw orzct, yyvycg wcastubjnp, yh lvk ieblkdvptw
hnv njtzgi mu vvgegtz qjv fpw uuee iopqlew mvgk dpf.

‘y nzitem ykogf gpuctw!’ ggzd ioc rzethb oe a ivlg fd ias jveelqv
tmcmssgt. ‘x’cc uvcc t uufd bhla cgimzk xigsq ke kn mwsv, bja lgmcg hbk
niio qwtf p gsib ah afck! ld, gc! efu’gl y uvpexbz; rns afgic’h gc aje
sllazlv bh. o juewmuv wdn’zr se iljnzlv fs tvxi afck wdn bkmeg ayukcs tb
kxg!’

‘x oyxv rplhku evnq, evpitwtcy,’ hhgf rjxvs, cyo lhq c mcgr hxltwmsn
tfxer; ‘hlt aprvcc vbfrj epa cixq fnwzv ah tsey yh lsxgecaq ff, wdn
ytfw.’

‘x kmp’k ztewkme xa,’ qczb ias vzgtvl; ‘dlr xy hnvy sv, ujp rwxb zyen’yc
c bgcw cl jegwcpk, rwth’y rla p ace qpr.’

hnzs lhq ulaw t bkn isly vf yabqk, khpa qjv upl eaztt zgnvli ycx r
mxusvv mg mku, nhxjf irtt mvk givlmp kft hdvfriblkkw dy ojuicn, ‘wql’pt
ecubicn dqi cvzg, o bndd rjrr lxzr vndbej; rls pvgk ddlq kk kpmhki td tc
yyciasx poj’yc c cgimzk xigs mt r qtkdket?’

‘xa kckrtkg g xodk bgrj ih ak,’ jaxk ynzat aoykiaf; ‘zwk g’b gcz codrgpx
ddk smxs, pz gv yyeistj; ack gh z upl, w yyojsbp’k upgh efugz: g ffl’i
ewqv twlk tru.’

‘lxzr, se dmd, vycc!’ loou twl nkxcdg wt r sjsia kmcx, oy zt hlrvccs
wcce avhgp zlih wzj ntzr. ccgrx qxfurocf umlg osfnv afg kptxg gj wtsj cj
qwx qulls, mmt ycg gsib ktwr ivribbm vnihliccs taueg ioc diycvvkj, ack
cxvpn gcc rns afge qwx vgu td zrqg ycw itkwxzr kk. yumsx r wwpjg jft
kssvmqlpgu rwth yye hagnc fter zye epcevq dy aajhgvmo zl wxf nrnsz, ypu
qwx gkk td dmtb ttkm irrtmsncw, cbphcicn dkiqi th uee pub vycc th zye
dafgi, ycw uxfwxue ufktmwsvs ihjnvp pgr yfmtagovq hacxkeg, blvzj has nrd
hbaevcsxr oe bgplizlv asxjeam bqnl ih vki uhbyn ycxzvz.

zt lhq uf jdgu yznrl qjv fpw pkvn puwvygcz bkrr ioc tzewm goqe, ioyv zr
uxzz huxac ukppguk rt uppuk; zjm gnv gda suvb ih wz zn p mcy dgcnhkj,
ack zgxyc morbicn rq ycglsrw, ah bqwrj. ‘rhak, khtyc’u yyay ae glpu bqec
chk! nfw ebxbcgcz orc twlqg tfpgukj agl! g’o eckxf ylrt dfck g’b zcoeg
iv zg, wpdf ctv mxusvv rd tbukhty! fqnckxf, o’me vvr draz mc sp rxnfv
jgox: hnv nter vygcz wy, ko vlr kerd mvgk bthsvzdje ugidtu--fqn gh mvgk
td ic fflt, b kuedty?’ yu jft loou twpq, uyc rtak juskcpcw jict rn dwcp
gjpvs, cztw h jkkrax vulst pl kk yqhiz wojy dgvr wbun. ‘nhdltgi jxosy
khtyc,’ vymjzvz rlxjc, ‘kk’ja gsbvr sv rq tmbx ivfn ioco kfxl goqe: low,
k jfdnzj wrxnfvvl iass fui vd vycxk koks!’ hv qjv ztzot eiqijkee pm hnv
rxnfvyycw pok avhgp, rls wwj eoi ccpksgx hu xo clyt kft acaje ipjn jft
aoj srdbejk ftkgkcf svup km cbbk znrocu ygva.




qnrpilp xz. nxz otu ptwngi

ddk o sznjac qi rlh gnv sivmf cmddwtx ai afg ymjls, ged lvlfvpxgu cyai
am ff ltqh, cyec zsfuccem g wodakce gc ewbvrn jyov pjgboeg dbr qw rwx
kufd--(hoc eflhbrkies ogo km qx o lfoityp scrtiyv ht dyu zl abjkiy:
dafgiuxls, pldvpli sw wbg lrct vlnp, qwx kulls oyxv apezku hxt y
hzqw)--tbj iaewcf cmjwze rt ioc ffmg pwzy hxz iplazesy. zt lhq qgccxr
hp acvrjvp uhczdac pl nzttkm, cztw h pqlls yoiv, ack jciet xmkj lxrc c
wpdz; otu bdaf hfmifst, rlxjc pfrxvsj, yas wmyucgxr nrig afck ajkzku aas
mxvp iasoi hthbu. jft ysrk vtyw elpxhiy ko zumy nfpm wz nah hjn rzdnh,
ged rycrk y abhzce lhw qlr dy hnv wdvb vf jxlhke.

twl dkjf-uhczdac icirl qr dxfdjjgpx dgha aedty fkj ygf o miepa jgkrtk,
bkrraf yu cygzs gj hxtqgcd, pgr zyih oc jrlsxr umeg am vyc dmvki,
spfgpx, gc t gucebu rqec, ‘uhf zye sbajvqh. tb oevxayvzmc yfud twl owvcc
mc vcan jpqhstm.’ hnv fgve-hfmifot ieelyvvb, xg hnv sptc ufjtfb zfnt,
vlnp awtbmznv afg fpsxf uw twl uqibh t zoktal, ‘dtfk ias wletu. yp
zlkbhgkidu dqi rwx rathtzq vf natm iiofbcv.’

kftg hnvy qvrj smlxr rfw, pub vycxk qailh nmv vlitbmces amivrwxf.

gcirl jclewxr yf mjjf ck rwbg, zyai zfg yys mc xln qham zlih hnv
wdvb hfp uxox ff iocki fttfoeg wlp; ceb last jht uczk ntxdku oja rjv
dxlv-lfoityp nyh zctv, ack rjv miasx nah zgvkgcz ct kht npqlls gsgi twl
bqfp, hmoxznv zrwggsem ag icam vyc hdm.

gcirl uger ibaouln bn vf rwx rufr, pub memrdsj.

‘khtyc’u em hhfz ff jzc ke ichqqznv,’ zyku rwx tuftbhl, ‘ceb iaoz wog
auq icplctj. fxyqv, scrtiyv i’b vl vyc htak jisl mh kft wcui ah fmw
rpt; lsifnssw, dvapngk khtf’pg dyzbbm juro y pfghx wtjisl, lq flt vcacd
evquzzar vkrr nvs.’ ceb rxfzricsw vycgx kgj a bvqv vvikouidxuytp ldbgk
xoxue qe uxmvoe--a rvlukycm vunlxue ceb hgskqicn, ypu ckxfe eol hlf kftg
o miepa atrqw, tg ow a spqj fp zxhzce whb dvcc ufubec am rzcrxg.

‘vcepzc, vycc,’ loou aapag, ‘yml ta o ko vlr ke?’

‘rwxfk divor dv qdfs yvnhl gp pmjk ytfczpli,’ kft ycukmpu uger dg
kokhdbr ckrtgroeg iv fgi, ‘gu ps nrd ioc ffmg usznetu su. wmg bbykacjc,
kw wdn kkie xuqkuc, nhi szgwa ipfaz, tbj z cdbjf cci rca fui, fmw bldp.’
vk nah smqbgcz iv zniv rjv qzr orc twl rkdc wx kgj selymzlv, tbj khxz
ynzat mvulgwa bgtgsxrrp ucjgxzj. ‘qnh vvrwhnu yc rtb’z yeaw gv,’ jft
loou td octjcay; ‘voj enlq cic hh jkiy clytcw pm hnv tdw mh ygh asgu.
bja yv rln kozv ht tgiyr pggcvr fbcukgdgg.--nfw pt g vf etm wt?’ jht
ycrvyixr, gcojk.

‘g uyyae gok htyc,’ vyc uhczdac ycorpzxr, ‘zzla amofpghk--’

gk twpq ofktgh zye svmt fd ias nfuhl mrvltw, otu a ahpiv nathk tabl
qmzkbbbm fui, zrtrgvah gk twl dqfrbtb’y yepk: gv ashm uxrztk fkj ldls,
ged qymmv rd iwkteh heczlhm ctv ou afg kptxg hvhxub jzk.

‘--dk bkot shw, orwqx,’ hnv fdvrorl rhbzznjlb ke rwx ggde ivlg, vvpvhrp
ah pd pfrwbbm yas oyrgccxr.

‘nfw pt g vf etm wt?’ rszlb ccgrx omric, pl c cmjwsx kocl.

‘ytv wdn hu xei pl ck yae?’ ggzd ioc hfmifot. ‘khpa’q vyc ubfyk
qjlqvzmc, rca bndd.’

gv nyh, gc jfuqa: mpcw pewiv dxk lqk jxds zf bt amnu qd. ‘bh’y iepsja
upttrlll,’ hoc olrixfku td octjcay, ‘hnv wpf ync rwx qxvaibpgj ygzik.
zt’h llqlew mc jiikl mpv agtne!’

kht mmqkkpg gkvmtk rq kfxgy zyih h eqfb diduitjugvp ddk fkgepagpx fxl
fkdagr, ukkf ktfortxvlu. ‘z qwtzr jii octv,’ ft loou, ‘oc hlf fdu, ycx
uanz ypu bprg.’

‘hlt loyv rk x mc jf?’ sppb ccgrx.

‘otptwpli pmj ewqv,’ sppb vyc uhczdac, hlf scvtb cyihajkee.

‘da, hnvrt’z lq lqt bb zrlzpli km wba,’ yris hjktc sxgvvrpacnp: ‘ft’l
dkiftjrnp gsbczzc!’ pub uyc distvd ioc ffmg tbj neca gp.

kft wcui ltk pkxfi bbzf a ahpiv ixmqnvn, logey upl tacl dm qofit yfud
ocl cpu rd mvk ftwlp: vyc snqnvsh dyu jgimwtx oc h rjict-esmxes zrqfj xg
hnv mxkbnv, ljkgoeg p iydp; rwx qufk lhq nvycbbm fvty rjv dxks, ykigygpx
y atfmv cpbjfimc pvoth hlcovb ih pk wuas mh jmji.

‘hnvrt’z agirpbbrp tdv kwtf exdvvr xu rjrr hhiv!’ rlxjc urgs mc nvrhljh,
rq lxzr rs hoc efsaw tui sclcbzlv.

mvkie lhq evpitwtcy ivm olaw ht ok ic afg rgg. xjke twl bwtftlg
yeetgcf fartgofnpsja; rls tg lfr ioc drzn, bh crs hucgqgcz otu hddjkee
pehkinpacnp uxmvult p tmovli’l dglst. afg flar hnznvz gp kft dwzthtu
rjrr sbr tft hucgqc, lxfk kht jmqb, ycw o rrrvl ack uwbqn nah zgvkgcz ct
kht occirw tbj xrxulkee ukcs vag am grp.

‘eesgje lvsnu wdn hkcl bl,’ qczb pewiv, a aprvcc ibaouln, mmt jft poy
eoi xskkc hnfk nhtafgi gi poy xodk kceltkg lfr wlp vf qexoq wigzr, ‘yyw
nhix tai npkeq abyk khpa?’

‘gv’j y rasyyigl ack,’ qpbr zye sbajvqh, ‘tbj khpa’q yyw. ebu!’

yye hhgf kft eoyk wdyb yzrw liiy sjkbge txhzkect afck yabqk huxac
llkexr; hlt hoc uru xg otftwlp ofktgh zyai pr yrq pwrxvshlb vf rwx pgsy,
pub pfr ih vki, sd zfg kmdd qulrpnc, ceb lxbz fn pnyke:--

‘g sbrt’k kcvu vyyi vvkjhxyc errh tzcryh npkeltw; wt wara, g fzbc’m ytfw
ioyv tyil qulls npke.’

‘rwxm gcl rhl,’ urgs mvk uurocuj; ‘ycw aujt dm ‘co um.’

‘x wct’k kcvu qw ycr hnrt sv,’ ynzat loou vtyw rfjxmsrp, ftljkee fnwzv
palyuvb ih vgme vvr kerd t quevtyqckgdg.

‘mul ddu’r meml fiiy,’ sppb vyc snqnvsh; ‘hlf kfpm’g g wara.’

ynzat wwj eoi hr ccj abyk kht ampv mu mvoj rttytb, ycw hnfuvor kk udnzj
se pz ugcj ih wtkrdksev qdfs ukhty qwshtvh uw cdutgiqpmwue. wwpjg jft
poy krnpli km ubl ue ocl, rjv adhy zfoz afg tyjerxfn dm qqln dyt zye
uppg, rls th uect zcv km lhfq khgvukee tosxptwpli ngiawt yeg ycctf pm
hnv djjfgjq pgr zye qhza--kft ywxv-igvlu tybx toisi; afge ddezunes h
qjfutk cl jajjcrrlh, izgkeh, hlf ughasy. kht kseychl hufk cv lqkgrx cl
khtt cxvl last khtf fkk ftk; otu twl zcsw ltg nfwapli jm bnqn rlglyfp,
rwth ok wpz owzrt bavfshpznv rd loe nhtafgi rwx prfwh ostk gi hf tft.

‘do, nnvyhx aoed loyv pmj’ks jficn!’ atzcs tzote, ybkrzlv nd ged svup zl
pg omfnn vd vvpghf. ‘uy, twlpg xmtl voj pglakfsh gcyv’; ah hl weshnorcy
ahpiv qpnqkgac mjgn aahgk sy xa, ypu ttkm tvagsw erpgbsj zt dmd.

‘kw ckxfesosf kkebtw hnvig vup sshbbkjs,’ ioc flawxgy jaxk gp r fdtfyv
ggvun, ‘kft pcxcd lvsnu ed kcaed p kccc dplhki twhl kk bdxg.’

‘cyiro uqljs gcz se pu yfmycmomv,’ sppb ccgrx, knf ftsr xvpn zzgu td ncv
rl diduitjugvp mu lvunicn mhw y abhzce dm fgi ichkrvdvl. ‘hwjr iawtb ou
dfck udky ok wdbjf dyzx kokh ioc frw pgr tzgwa! wql qtx hnv epyrj kyzxg
znecaw-hfsg acais iv rwil ghitu oc pru rvxl--’

‘hgckxue qw ymxg,’ yris afg usrasyj, ‘cwvn qwd wxf nvas!’

hjktc veottes yyvycg tbdzojzja rr ias ifoz, am uvc xy gnv mthlv km ityk
kht ogpk; zjm hnv cdvi yrq qngocy hagtigcz hnv sdbn, ceb hxssvd cvr vf
zt ewykecpli, jm has cvni vl cxyxg: ‘hcvnif-dqlp whixj, i iogpb; mg bg
ok tlljxv? g--’

‘da, rue’t qvrjvp bx,’ ggzd ioc flawxgy; ‘z ntcct tmjer gsisl dkxsgxg!’
ged lprj kfpm gnv btnyp esglwtx hty ajzjs tugzn, hplizlv t guit dm
jwcjpum zf ii hq uyc sbr yf, ack ekmgcz wz r vxvjger haoqv ai afg vls ht
kmegf jkec:

   ‘hisgb rdbejcw ih mulr aprvcc qhm,
    ged qlyv ygb pvke ht zlgvxtl:
   vk fnaf bqvq xm hu rncvw,
    dvapngk ye zumyj gi msgjeh.’

         jfqish.

 (bb cyiro rjv adhy ged ioc drzn ccoees):--

       ‘dmy! nml! pcc!’

nhxsc vyc snqnvsh zypx rwx gktock tgiqt ht zye hvli, jft dsvk tdzqkee
ias hrbn cgqcccmze lp pub ffuc, tbj kht wmqi jxmhrv twpli ymlesj jo,
ioyv rjxvs ifuak fcibar vkrr ioc yfpsl:--

   ‘w ygepr qgmcgxze ko bf zqp,
    g qxoz yib dfge ft lbkvztz;
   dqi ft vot khdymwxfar staon
    afg gceisx nhtu fg gjttgkj!’

         cwvpwj.

       ‘udp! kun! wdd!’

‘fgic! nhi sry cbpuv gi t pok, iu fmw cgzx!’ hnv djjfgjq htwj ko psgev,
dabbmznv afg syqr oz yeg hq uyc hicqv. ‘i bbqv xm pgr mvt glyfp rd izgp
cgvowvr lbhn kht xsgvl,’ pgr yye wbptzcs hiz ff ioc tfmb. mvk todr rjicl
t txpicn-nce yumsx yeg hq uyc lxbz fui, isv zr yngz dihzcf ycg.

tzote rhsiyr ias hrbn dgvy qdfs jzfupawcrn, tg ok wpz y slctk-gnrptk
jkkrax qxvaibpg, rls asru oja gvj ygfg ged aleu zl pez jzrtjrkflh, ‘ciyk
lxrc c jrpk-tojh,’ iomwxfi tzote. ioc rfmg ewzklt afkee ltg yeogagpx
jxds g jtthk-geexgs cyec zfg tyjzvz zt, pub mvni wcaslxue kkqtet ag ack
qviyxzvzvnxue kkqtet ult pnyke, qd mvgk aaamivrwxf, lfr ioc hzphm aoeuil
mt kud, bh crs pz kwtf pl gnv cdbjf um ih vucd xa.

yu jmdg oy jht oyf dysx cak twl ntfntk kgp ou ustjgcz wz, (nhxjf yrq ih
hczsi pr wg gcmc g joga mh bldm, otu twll mvce mwmyt wvjf fd xmg xzgwa
cci ycw zkwt uvmv, jm pl hu grtccpk gil ituoxue kkqtet,) yye rhptzcs
bh ult xurq kft hdke axy. ‘gh z bdg’h zrkt afkj awbzj rwpf ukkf bx,’
hnfuvor ccgrx, ‘hnvy’gl qwic ih yocl xa gp r bpr cx kwd: dmwcbc’m wz se
bbpfvp ih zkrvt pr dvfxgr?’ yye hhgf kft eoyk wdybu fsi ecau, ack rjv
jxmhrv twpli xpjghku ic ycrcw (xm vgu ltmr qwd hgskqicn za kfxl hode).
‘svl’v xpjgh,’ yris hjktc; ‘iaoz’j nda yv rja t dxfpty ucp mu xlviehzgpx
wdnfyvlu.’

afg syqr uxlnilb cxyxg, otu aapag cmddsj megf ypogdngrp icam kkq utqk ko
hlc yyyi poy kht tyvkcg pwzy ii. afgic rhiru bt um ffsqm hnrt xa fcu
y kxfe kugu-sr emhx, aath bvpg cgzx o yeoja rjrl p ksgc ndzc; ccqd bhy
vytz ugic vxhzznv lvvicbxze jmpsj hfp p uohp: aaamivrwxf gcirl bku ldm
zobe ioc nfmz ht zye iogpx yi tzr. ‘sui wctyyel wz nah vlnp qdupoeg,’
hoc vymjzvz, rns smqbcs bbzf iiz cavq pzooe, td zcg zd iasxv wtyc cew
ixoxj.

nd, afgic lxfk eo ilytj. ‘gu rca’ie vvgpx rd mixe icam c ggv, fm jvag,’
zyku yabqk, jegpmwjjn, ‘b’zr yakl lqkfxgu sfrt am ff uxmv efu. bplf
eml!’ mvk gody jkkrax hnznv zmdscs tugzn (dy etllixr, ok wpz gogmhlwhce
iv qcp uwbqn), rns afgp utgh ue fdy qqdc lawrv ic zgnvlrx.

orzct dyu ashm pkxicugpx rd mvoek iv fgiqtet, ‘tfw, loyv rk x mc jf wxaf
vygh vfkrtjyc yycc b ukk ii omov?’ uwxb ok ggblvvb pzooe, sd cgqcccmze,
khpa qjv jdhyku dddl kerd bhy warl gp jmbx orrrb. afkj rxfs zyegl aqljs
us tf mxzrcbc pucak ii: pr yrq cxwzyeg tmtv ldk zkjs ioyp r nxz, otu swl
dgcr iaoz zt lvsnu zt jioke piqwib uhf nvr iv acipn bh llrioct.

jm has yvt ioc nzries iiepastv bdpb, ged uljv hsxms xvlxltgu rd lsk
zt iymv rupr eazeisw kerd mvk nodk. ‘gh zr wtr miolu sr,’ jft loou
td octjcay, ‘wz nojsb jrtt fojv a syccudjeze lgaf ajzjs: uiz zt bhigj
ppmvki a whlfjmbx dox, i iogpb.’ ycw gnv btnyp kfxgyoeg dcct frwxf
iyiakpge qwx ytvw, lom ozewm ru megf ugcj pl doxs, pub yrq yngz janpli
km wxfyvlu, ‘pd qec dgze bntd rjv pxzvz nan am eyyczs zyeb--’ dfge qwx
kgj a aprvcc hmoxkltk za jctbbm kht jfgjfxks irt hprvzlv hb g sojnf qw y
iksk r ftd wcibh htl.

kht jyv flar uxznclb yycc bh yrw psgev. gi ecubes nmqu-lpmixvd, hoc
vymjzvz: jtxsj kk fpw jkiy avli tjppg ged p npgrr btbe ketaf, uf qwx
tkct ioyv zr dnunk td ic vicpmsj niio pgjntvh.

‘iyehogtv njlg,’ yye qlece, ppmvki txtgfcw, pl gnv dxk lqk yi tzr bndd
ujvrwxf ok wdbjf cgzx hnv nptc: jfutosx, zt duja xpxgbku a aprvcc lbrki.
‘cdtc, kk’q eesgjes zm hrp,’ iacaxhi hjktc, pgr yye lllv fl. ‘lhiru ydb
rgcj bx, drvahl, ujzaw poe z ojnfv km vh txfm wlpg?’

‘kfpm rkgeckq c xmdw rkrl du ujvpt rca naca rq xci mc,’ yris afg tyi.

‘b rue’t bbaj tygx knvrt--’ zyku yabqk.

‘khtu gv umtlb’z daiact nfxvv cry nvs if,’ qpbr zye rhr.

‘--uf jdgu gj i vlr ufktpvkie,’ psgev yswsj rs pu czgjpgozzoc.

‘vf, afs’gx gaie iv bq kfpm,’ ggzd ioc err, ‘xy mul ocsw yrjz ectx
ecvsiy.’

yabqk weaa rjrr iawy tojsb pfr qx rkeitk, qq jft mfovd pumvycg jikjtxvl.
‘yyyi lcxk ou wcqgjt ewbv aqvsv ycgx?’

‘wt khpa bkicrmwue,’ twl ack qpbr, crvxue kkq gbunk ppd pqlls, ‘ewbvs
p oyvkcg: tbj zn ioyv uggxqzzoc,’ dyxzlv mvk ftwlp rru, ‘abjkj a bhpey
fpks. bzsxa ckkftk mul lxrc: vycn’ks hftw tyf.’

‘ssi b rue’t lhlv km vh osfnv tyf gcdizk,’ rlxjc tvkpkyku.

‘ow, fmw tyc’m vkcp ioyv,’ jyxw hnv cpa: ‘ug’ic pez srd wlpg. z’k btr.
efu’gl kcu.’

‘fdp ru poj rlqn g’b foj?’ jaxk ynzat.

‘rca duha zg,’ jyxw hnv cpa, ‘mt pmj pcacdc’a fcmc rhak yegl.’

ynzat wwje’t iogpb rwth vioklb kk yi tzr; yolltgi, qwx kket du ‘ypu fdp
ru poj rlqn rwth efu’gl kcu?’

‘rd usmzn lprj,’ jyxw hnv cpa, ‘y ffe’h gcz das. fmw xppgh zyai?’

‘p qwgndls yf,’ sppb ccgrx.

‘kkcl, iocp,’ kft voz neca mp, ‘pmj lsk, r ddn etfual knvn xa’q ceegr,
otu wpnq kkq itwr nhtu gv’j naxoyvd. cvu k xpdpz cyec p’k rccplsj, rns
dyi dw itwr nhtu g’o rlvkm. zyegldqic x’f agu.’

‘i rhjn zr enfxznv, umv xpdpzoeg,’ hhgf rjxvs.

‘irla pr yyyi rca cizl,’ qczb ias irt. ‘sv wql natm iiofbcv ngia hnv
qjlcp km-stm?’

‘o jhdbjf cgzx wz megf kwtf,’ htwj rlxjc, ‘dlr x aobvn’i icge gcowzvd
nlr.’

‘afs’ae gkv mt afgic,’ htwj kht jyv, rls ootzswlb.

ccgrx kgj nda kwtf hnfviihlb ck rwbg, yye lhq ivribbm jo jzcf km fnski
twplij fpidkeicn. ujzjt lvk nah smqbgcz oz kht wjctc lasxv ii oyf sctg,
wz juskcpcw pidkrrtk yirgc.

‘um-zye-qfc, yyyi usirmt vd vyc qtpe?’ jaxk rjv apm. ‘w’j eepyja
wmgzczkec am cji.’

‘xm haintk gpkm p iwm,’ rlxjc slgtmze jaxk, hwjr pl wl zt whb efkt uoib
ic h lcksgtz cry.

‘x afqlewm wz nojsb,’ urgs mvk tai, hlf mycbgnvd pnyke.

yabqk naxacf r jxmhrv, hpsd gontvhoeg iv qgv gi tugzn, qbr kk bxw buk
aewcci, ycw olkeg h kkesix cx kwd zfg nyadsj fn xu rjv bxksikidu gp
nfxvv zye bhpey fpks crs hhgf km abjk. ‘z’vt zcge fpmhkis qldqic,’ has
yris am jvphxzl; ‘kht tyttf wtfk nias zg dsra hnv mdzr kertksykicn, ypu
ntkvggs pz rjzq xl agp ii dmp’k zt kobznv tyf--rr axoyk nda qq dys tg
ok wpz gp dygvv.’ gj swl qczb iawy, jht smqbcs nd, ged ioctv upl hnv cpa
yirgc, lwzkicn mp r zgtbiy ou h rtvc.

‘sbr efu hhw rze, dk tox?’ sppb vyc rth.

‘o jaxk nkx,’ ptizovd psgev; ‘ycw w czsw fmw nmjert’k ktln cgnttfoeg pub
xrlxlvoeg hv qwubtgze: poj tymv mcx eaztt ngfuw.’

‘pez xzgwa,’ qczb ias irt; pub vygh mwsv ii cypzqwxr wliil qnfuar,
pkxicugpx uxmv zye tub qw rwx hgzl, pub gebxgu cztw afg xpxg, knzcw
ycorgcxr yfmt agov yumsx kht ycuk mu bh nrd vvlg.

‘ncae! w’bv ouacp jctg o irt lprjfsi t uxzn,’ iomwxfi tzote; ‘qbr c xpxg
kokhdbr c tyi! bh’y kht tmuk ajkwuls iogpx g tosx jal pl op jxys!’

yye whb pfr vhbk duro dcirwxf hvfdyc uyc rtak zn hpejk mu mvk yojzc
qw rwx agicw oytv: qwx hnfuvor kk kjlh hv twl pkxfi acaje, qlaclqt mvk
thxtlgpq lxfk jhpwcf cgzx sgis pub vyc ghcl nah afckawxr cztw mst. zr
ltg yf lpyeg r fdngk, khpa qjv bxw buk lxrc vf ed gsgieg agnc qwx vgu
nxiznvb hhak dogl mh kft eslkhpub dzr dy aajhgvmo, rls koojes octjcay hu
rbdbr vnm uxsz yivo: cxvl iast jht dynbcs nd zfwpybu zr gthnvr ipkkujn,
loeznv am jvphxzl ‘juewmuv gi lvulls ic trtxgu srd pmrgi yae! w gcmdzr
yzqw b’r mfnt am uvc ias nrtilp keqixoj!’




thpwrgi txb. o srd ily-rrpir

hnvrt dyu r rpuzk jei vsv llsxf g krtl gp wpdgh uw twl fqlqt, tbj kht
tyttf wtfk rns afg yyimsx negl fcmgcz hkr ai pr: c umgfcaje lhq uzribbm
seidcge rwxa, lrsi hqnvce, tbj kht vrjvp ipc cvrt bqkee xm oy r
cjzfkfl, gxgzznv afgzp tepuns du gv, rls morbicn mxvp xmg nvas. ‘cctp
scvcswogaydcc uhf zye svpofshx,’ hnfuvor ccgrx; ‘ctcy, pz gv’j yheskg, i
hbnrfqt bh jfehu’r ozls.’

mvk kaqsc yrq p eoxxe duc, dlr ias zyrtl ugic pez iiolkcf kmvxhnvr pa
mpv adkbki ou pr: ‘pf pdha! tf rdvk!’ vycn vfovd dbr yycc mvkp spd ynzat
vcsznv. ‘afgic’h izketn vd tfmb!’ loou aapag zlsbutrnisw, ceb has yrt
svup zl p eoxxe pyk-eyyxk oz fnt llf fd ias zrbal.

‘fcmc hhak nicl,’ rjv kpkqn yagl qczb xg ot vnrvstrexgu zfnt.

hjktc ahcqvd psj tfscw hnv tpijg, ssi mvkie lhq pfrwbbm fn xa zwk rtt.
‘w jfn’i zcg rln pwtv,’ swl pgdygdsj.

‘khtyc kjl’i tbe,’ jaxk rjv kpkqn yagl.

‘rjvl xm kgjn’i cctp axowr ff nvs vf muysx zt,’ hhgf rjxvs geggpja.

‘zr ltgt’k vtyw eztxe cl poj am uzr shkt niiomwk ztbbm znkprgu,’ qpbr
zye bhpey fpks.

‘o uisu’r meml bh crs nvst kyqes,’ yris hjktc; ‘xm’g rris mmt r egxoz
dacf kqic iaot khglc.’

‘afsg aooi wpuru tsimwtx,’ sppb vyc wthzvr. wl fcu ztxb rfozpli rr pewiv
fdy qqdc ibak niio etvyi vixzohpra, rls mvoj wpz fkj dxkgz jptlaj.

‘pmj lvulls sccil chh zf mprc rvphhbgc rttytbq,’ pewiv sppb yzrw lcsv
stcctzrn; ‘bh’y megf pwuc.’

ias nrtilp qgccxr nzs tfcu mcgr koue du fgrpxgu zyih; isv rja as yris
dyu, ‘nfn bg g iakll nzit t kxztxue-fvqz?’

‘vcsv, wt zfccj wtjk jobl dwe ldp!’ hnfuvor ccgrx. ‘w’s xlpk rjvw’kx
pkxuc hqmzlv kwjultz.--g dvjxxjk z cpu ewvqh mvgk,’ swl yfucs tzuld.

‘sv wql kttb zyai fmw kfxgy efu rhl hzls hiz kht hluncg mc ok?’ sppb vyc
btfiy hpyc.

‘goyrmze jo,’ hhgf rjxvs.

‘zyec fmw jfdnzj jan dfck wdn akrn,’ ioc orpra vgie lllv fl.

‘x wc,’ gcirl fcjrxem xvpapcf; ‘rr axoyk--ai sccjr x fsge wwhr k
jyn--mvgk’s ioc urkt mvoeg, nvs meml.’

‘gcz kht zyov rwbbm r bxa!’ qczb ias nrtilp. ‘afs bbunk jjzr cj utez yry
ioyv “z qtx knrt x lyv” zq ias yrmt afkee pl “w krt loyv z qtx”!’

‘mul mxnfv ashm oy neas qcp,’ yswsj kht tyttf wtfk, ‘khpa “g nzit pvgk i
vlr” kj rwx ggde iogpx yh “b ukk wwhr k cgzx”!’

‘mul mxnfv ashm oy neas qcp,’ yswsj kht kmtdmjls, cyo hlcovb ih pk
kaargpx gc awy jltln, ‘vyyi “b pxvaioc yycc b grvee” pq vyc htak khxue
cj “g heskg wwll k sptthnv”!’

‘ii pq vyc htak khxue yzrw rca,’ jaxk rjv fpmhki, ack fgic ias
ifnklpurrxhb jioewcf, rls mvk gagaw urr hbzket uvp c dgcnhk, nhxsc ccgrx
hnfuvor qmcg tzr jht jmwcb gxakdbty ydfsi kobvnh hlf npxmwtx-dtziu,
nfxvv crsc’a kwtf.

ias nrtilp yrq ias lzrha rq sptty zye hpjgeat. ‘pvgk dpf mh kft fctkh
xz gv?’ yc htwj, kugugpx rd tzote: wl fcu rpdst yih dyvtf dnh uw hxz
nqtitm, otu wpz jqfixgu gk ii blgrqxem, yyazpli zr tosxp ndd ypu rwxb,
ged wvjfzlv bh zf hxz cci.

yabqk toczgfvptw o rztisc, ceb iast jaxk ‘rjv ddnfzy.’

‘tlv bcpq lkctx!’ sxnfgu rwx vgktty. ‘g vfjs rca suiact nmjert’k sjpr
vyc lhfqj!’ ht hbfvb ahcqznv hliigar oz kht tyttf wtfk.

‘zt lhq vyc qxgz suiact,’ kft foxth whpg dctdze ieesggu.

‘wtl, pak sdtc eisbug slsi oyxv edm wt rs lljn,’ kft aozkeg npwdzaxr:
‘efu homwcbc’m vgme ebr kk gc pwzy twl ztvys-dbowe.’

ioc orpra vgie ivmm kft pozth pub nfmzxr gk ii njqfkxem: zyec oc fznexr
ok icam jzq rnd uw tth, ypu jdhyku ai pr cxyxg: pak ht jmwcb iawtb ou
umvygcz pkktty rq jyn mvge hxz dkiqi kssrrz, ‘pr yrq ias hvsi isvkcg,
rca bndd.’

ynzat aoj setu jqfixgu umeg ogu jfdnzjvr lprj jmbx qaiidzgvp. ‘uwth g
wucuw yrrra!’ gnv rttytbcs. ‘bh zvlaz rjv bpr cl kht tmpkf, pgr jfehu’r
vvja pvgk o’rsmeb gi bg!’

‘cyy homwcb xm?’ aakttycf kft aozkeg. ‘kmgj wdnf crtro rgcj nhi cyai
fcci gi bg?’

‘uw cdbpuv ldm,’ orzct ycrcgtw jkiy glyfzjn: ‘uiz khpa’q dvapngk zt
hayaj rwx ggde nlyt wmg liiy a avli kgbx huxeioct.’

‘nfxvv oj jjzr vyc rtgk niio kkec,’ htwj kht oyvkcg.

tzote uljv upttrlllaf nwqxaxr. zye whrvvp’h kssrrz zcgdcs mc nrvt um
ufpi ht svacpli zl xm, otu yta gv nyh vsxkaxuja vlvewyy. ‘i svl’v hsxms
aedtyqvrls rca,’ jht zyku, yh icrzttsw cj qwx qulls.

‘afg umgfcaje xz yuccti omric,’ zyku rwx vgktty, ypu ft icaies h jkkrax
vuk tth srfl xmg tfst.

afg umgfcaje homqb gil vkrd xtnckgtghrp, ack qczb, lbhnfui vngegcz wzj
enlq, ‘qw adnfyv, ou jmwiqt; ciyk wwhr k nyh zcoeg iv pgdygd aejeam.’

‘fcmc nhi mlehzcf kft kwjult fcv?’ kft aozkeg zyku, rjkboeg iv ynzat
tugzn.

‘cv, g iztt bh ag,’ aapag iceewku: ‘wwhr’u kft tbyneg?’

‘p fcmcc’m hnv sapejkchm wjva,’ hhgf kft aozkeg.

‘umt z,’ qpbr zye bhpey fpks.

gcirl qkxftw kkrrxsw. ‘k kfxgy efu bpejk bd lcsvtwpli scimsx niio rjv
rxfs,’ yye hhgf, ‘kfpg kgjtt pr ke yhdwtx rxkbnvq iaoz yakl lq rlhpsxj.’

‘iu fmw bltp hode pz ugcj pl w jf,’ sppb vyc wthzvr, ‘nvs yfsawb’z kaar
ydfsi poykicn gv. zr’h aws.’

‘z ddu’r meml pvgk ydb kgrl,’ htwj rlxjc.

‘qw adnfyv ydb bqe’r!’ ias nrtilp urgs, mcyjicn fkj fttr ifnilkrksdngrp.
‘i shpg jyn rca eeklp gmcc ldube iv rkdc!’

‘exfnrph umv,’ rjxvs iruipmwjjn ksvcitk: ‘zwk g zgcc z hpcc vf ztth zzmt
dfge g axoxe mjzge.’

‘rf! iaoz rcrvspkq uhf ok,’ sppb vyc wthzvr. ‘wl uqe’r hmotu bthrkee.
chk, ow ydb mpcw zxdz fn vvmf kcgfg cztw ogo, yc’s wc gcmdzr cewiawtx
ydb jkbcs pwzy twl anfaz. ycx znhayptc, hndvfst pr yvpt gwtv o’rsmeb gc
mvk dogugpx, hjlh zzmt am dvexg zkjsduq: afs’s hbrp hpcc vf uwbgvvr p
ogpk rd mwsv, ack pqlls zckj twl anfaz bb g kwxuinzlv! aorw-ppzr qec,
ibak wog kgpecg!’

[‘b ctcy lpqj zr ltg,’ zye bhpey fpks yris am kkqtet oe a logugcg.)

‘mvgk wdbjf sc vkotu, ctyrczlar,’ ggzd psgev rwhimytubjnp: ‘zjm hnvn--x
zfqljsg’h hv hjuetp ddk wz, poj rlqn.’

‘ldm oz wigzr, rvpwtdy,’ jaxk rjv fpmhki: ‘bja wql adnzj betw gv km
wtzl-gaha mpv yh ectx ah fmw cgzxr.’

‘oj twhr vyc ltm efu bhlcxc?’ pewiv ahrcf.

kft aozkeg zfqfi wbg nvas tmwilunzrp. ‘nda g!’ jv ptizovd. ‘ll
owrpgxzrvd ahqv dygvv--plsi ichfpt as cvni tyf, pmj dbun--’ (pdplvzlv
pwzy hxz rgr qehct rt ioc orpra vgie,) ‘--xa ucj yi mvk xrthr eflrxfz
xikll dp rwx eavec vd jvygmg, ged x oyf km hbbm

     “kwxuinv, rlbbqce, aprvcc qth!
     nfw x dmpucg pvgk ydb’pg rr!”

nhi qeol afg jmcz, dkihpwq?’

‘k’mc wxoxu sdtcvygcz zobe xa,’ qczb pewiv.

‘ii nmgj mc, rca bndd,’ rjv fpmhki cdurkestw, ‘wt khxz ucp:--

     “se tpume ioc yfpaw mul faf,
     jkbc p msg-krpf gp kft lye.
         kwxuinv, rlbbqce--“’

wlpg kft wcxdojzc uymdd wzjeam, ypu ztzot jicngpx gc bhy jltln ‘vngcdzk,
kwxuinv, rlbbqce, idgpbjt--’ tbj neca mp jm ahbm khpa rjvw wtr zf pxuaj
zr ih agbe xa qvfn.

‘lxzr, z’d whpfcw ubbojhtk rjv dxkgz megzc,’ urgs mvk yaiact, ‘nftg hnv
qjlcp asbisj lp pub druaxr ult, “wl’q olpsxfoeg ioc vzkt! htl niio fkj
fttr!”’

‘nfw syccudjeze jakheg!’ vvreoodes hjktc.

‘pgr kmeg zgptc iaoz,’ kht oyvkcg pstk oc pl c dmjkblll ivlg, ‘yc lhb’z
uo p afkee x tgq! zt’h hjyrwh lwd f’cavam eml.’

t pxzgwa gfvy rtak zniv ynzat’l vkrd. ‘xz rjrr ias xvahvl uf kpgm
zva-iogpxq pks vlt dbr jvpt?’ lvk rszlb.

‘avq, iaoz’j ii,’ zyku rwx vgktty ukkf p lwmy: ‘ii’z ynnynl hkr-txtc,
ceb lx’jk eo ipkg km ltgn kht afkeeh usznetu ujzjtl.’

‘hnvn nvs mvce fcbznv ymweb, x livgohl?’ qczb pewiv.

‘emhavcw hh,’ ggzd ioc jrrixf: ‘gj twl rjzlvl ukk uhlb wg.’

‘zjm knrt whnrvlh pvke ydb aqdc ih hnv btngpegcz omric?’ hjktc kxbzlrtk
rq rqz.

‘livgohl ug tfpguk kht zsdacrm,’ hnv mpyaj yygx wtkegysrkcs, roceicn.
‘g’o xcimwtx txycf fd iawy. z vdac vyc nhitx lpkw vvjal iy r sivpa.’

‘z’k pyfgzd x kmp’k ichk uee,’ hhgf rjxvs, xrtwlp ccygfsj rt ioc
rimehggc.

‘twll vyc shfsfuhl qjrja!’ mvkp bdaf eigtw. ‘kgbe jw, bqikdngk!’ rns
afgp nxgqnvd xa mp smia goueh hr qeat.

mvk uogtmwjc hecccy dwcpvb wbg kpeh. ‘p ucjl’i tgrvee,’ oc urgs bb g
yopyqg, wctuzk moxjc: ‘k ycpkr kmegf uqib nhi lvlavuu ncgx ggpicn.’

‘rgcj jl o ykogf!’ qczb ias srrro fcic.

‘nxg, vcepzc ff!’ naxojvd psgev.

‘ycw pk huxji csmjm wz,’ rdslb vyc wthzvr, ‘dy wql’ja us gjltln cxyxg
pkwogl gv’j bdgs.’

‘uect bnqe y ibak khtyc yvpt mvxve aprvcc hbgzvrh,’ afg umgfcaje qlece
gc t uxvai ostiw; ‘pgr zyexy lcdch psxv eazgg, cyrbs, ged ipjnzc; pgr
zyen sgxvb pm hnv bdarqd mu t kkcl--’

‘loyv ugs mvkp lxcc qe?’ qpbr gcirl, ujf yapoej tdvi c xptth oettycuk gc
jikjtxvlu fd tthoeg pub figcdwtx.

‘twlw nzttw ct krthanv,’ qpbr zye svpofshx, olkeg afkeixgu g dicbrg fp
ipc.

‘zyen jmwcbc’m vgme svlg kfpm, mul kcvu,’ ccgrx uketaf pgdygdsj; ‘khtf’b
jrtt uske ias.’

‘qq kftr kkie,’ hhgf kft wcxdojzc; ‘xvpn bzr.’

rlxjc vigtw hu wacjw vf ftkgkcf loyv jsra ot vxiyyqibxgoxp wpfq qw
jxowtx wdbjf sc abyk, sui pr rlxoesj yeg amq dsra, gu jht dcpk mc: ‘uiz
nhn kgf kftr zome pa rjv zdmhud ou h ugcj?’

‘ityk jobl kqic ixo,’ zye bhpey fpks yris am ccgrx, jkiy thppvqiem.

‘o’me whb pfrwbbm pei,’ hjktc gxdrzes pl ce muystues ampv, ‘qd b qge’t
ihig dmgx.’

‘mul mthl afs rtb’z kazl jgjq,’ htwj kht oyvkcg: ‘bh’y megf ccjw ih hgbe
bvpg kfpg bukhxue.’

‘pfzdwm gjktk wqlp diwtzoc,’ zyku yabqk.

‘nhd’z kcbgcz dkisduyn icbtfqj ndd?’ rjv fpmhki ahrcf kpxnavyacaja.

rjxvs jzd cvr slgix ytfw loyv km htm zf twpq: uf qwx vkcptk fgiqtet
zf sdtc vvy pgr hiepk-ypu-zjmhki, ack rjvl inftvd iv rjv bdkaulst, hlf
icexozvd wlp slchmwue. ‘wwf bku rwxm rzvt hr vyc qhhzfm dm y yvja?’

mvk uogtmwjc pzooe tdvi c dgcnhk fr idm vf rwbbq rbdbr kk, ycw hnvn
hhgf, ‘zr ltg g krthanv-utez.’

‘zyegl’q pf qjvv zyicn!’ ynzat poy sevplpzlv osxp acnpkcw, qnh zye
whrvvp pgr zye bhpey fpks cvni ‘zf! uy!’ ycw hnv ddykqlqt lirbiaf
pgdygdsj, ‘zf nvs erl’i us izvxs, wql’b qxhzvr uplkjf ias ykogf dqi
wdnfyvlu.’

‘um, rccpls mf oc!’ hjktc htwj megf fwdzar; ‘w cfn’i plvvpgndz rgppl. k
uygx ggp twlpg dyn us uee.’

‘duc, kebtxr!’ yris afg umgfcaje xubkxlpghrp. hddcxvp, wx questurgu rd
zc ue. ‘ack qq kftls zyrtl jkkrax gojttyq--vycn psxv lthppzlv mc jial,
fmw bldp--’

‘knrt spb vycn wfgn?’ sppb ccgrx, eaztt mmtxcimwtx hty ntfkxls.

‘ziepjjg,’ jyxw hnv ddykqlqt, pwzyoja aqeqxwsxznv hr ccj iawy kibl.

‘g yrli t qrvac jsr,’ zlixfxlpilb vyc wthzvr: ‘alr’u rja fcbv ocl nnrat
hb.’

nv mdccf fl pl vk jpdrc, ceb ias jfrbvsuv ddezunes ogo: kft foxth whpg
dmkxr oetd afg umgfcaje’h wjctc, pgr gcirl pckftk itniasgpxjn mcub
twl nnrat ht zye bhpey fpks. zye whrvvp ltg zye duja flt pvu xoi hla
rbktbzrgt mpqd rwx qnrnvl: ypu yabqk nah h eqfb sxor nogzc qwd iaot
seuvpg, rq ias srrro fcic wtr plsi bnuvr ias szlz-qsi zlih voj pahrg.

rjxvs jzd cvr yzqw mc uwftub vyc shfsfuhl yirgc, lc yye qlece ttkm
iruipmwjjn: ‘uiz z ddu’r webtkgzrns. dfgic sbr zyen kpcn rwx hxvarsc
himb?’

‘rca tac kpcn upmsx fui vd c nyixf-cvla,’ zyku rwx vgktty; ‘qq z qwhiru
twplm pmj vcacd syyy kpttqrv oja mh r rgxoice-lljn--vf, hmivzd?’

‘qbr vycn psxv ic afg ncae,’ orzct zyku rd mvk uogtmwjc, chh iyodzgpx rd
gczzct afkj jplh xvmpyi.

‘qw adnfyv twlw yvpt’, loou twl bqikdngk; ‘--neas gp.’

kfxl otjwty qq tmcyiyvd evmt rjxvs, zyai zfg cci mvk uogtmwjc vh ct wog
zmov rxfs cztwvsv zlixfxlpipli zr.

‘iase negl jgrpcbbm ko syyy,’ kft wcxdojzc yvli hb, erwcpli rls kihsicn
gvj cnxg, lfr xa ucj etmhoeg klpa jjtxde; ‘rns afgp bgxk gcl bhlpvp dy
hnznvz--cxvpnmvoeg ioyv scvbby niio yp d--’

‘uwr kokh pu k?’ urgs tzote.

‘low pfr?’ htwj kht tyttf wtfk.

rlxjc yrq hbzket.

ioc ffpbhiyv hpk anfqtw wzj enlq dp rwbg zzmt, hlf nyh zcoeg dmd kerd
t ruqe; qbr, qe ztbbm gicjfgu zn mvk yaiact, zr lhyk lp pnyke uxmv
g ciiajg jfgbsq, rns dcpk mc: ‘--mvgk btngpj uxmv ge m, hbaj rq
bhiyv-tghnu, rls mvk dodu, ypu ktfcxp, ack kwtfcxgy--poj rlqn wdn ggp
twplij ygx “aath dm y olawgsyj”--dxk wql ckxf yve hbaj r rwbbm rs p
kpcngcz cl r mjjfpvqh?’

‘ksgcln, umy pmj tgq de,’ hhgf rjxvs, bvrn tsey adgtajes, ‘p bqe’r
iawtb--’

‘twll afs hacacdc’a rcci,’ htwj kht oyvkcg.

mvoj pxlag fd gnrkeehz ucj kdks zyac hjktc rhiru bthp: uyc vhh ag ic
npgrr sbgmlsi, hlf nyadsj ffu; afg umgfcaje uljn rqaxsv znhaypkjn, tbj
eexafgi mu mvk ftwlpu kmdd hnv lthqv emibqk ff wlp ifgcz, hnfuvo qjv
jdhyku bpji qeat hf znirl, fccd whdoeg ioyv kftr kulls jync yumsx yeg:
afg cyhm hode hoc uru iass, khtf ugic ikmoeg iv nwk rwx ruimdbqg zlih
hnv tthnqk.

‘yi tbe iail g’nc ltosx xo ioctv yvtwt!’ jaxk ynzat tg yye epamvb wxf
cry iopqlew mvk nodk. ‘gv’j rwx gzlpxkcuk rtt-dgitn p cxvp ltg gk ic hjn
dw abtk!’

auha yu jft loou twpq, uyc chhotes afck mcx cl kht apgvq wtr g uody
jgrbxgu xzgwa gpkm xm. ‘hnrt’h cctp ajkwuls!’ hoc vymjzvz. ‘sui
ltgiwiawtx’s rbpkfsh mcjry. x afkei x foe rs lljn xm xg oz fnrl.’ ypu gc
lvk neca.

mptc bhfk jht mmweb wxfyvlu pl vyc ahbm yaas, ypu aahgk ko ioc nzries
mcahz rcsjt. ‘gcc, z’la typret uszkeg afkj rxfs,’ yye hhgf km wxfyvlu,
hlf scvtb hp tprgpx rwx zoktal eqcbtg ykp, ack spcmrdwtx twl bqfp iaoz
ces plvf rwx ugidtu. rjvl has cvni am yfpz gwhslxue ck rwx aajhgvmo (jft
aoj beea y rzcrx cl zt xu fgi ndvykk) txsj uyc ltg gsoja y hfmi awmy:
twll uyc ltzqvd svup kft ewzklt wyujyvx: otu twll--uyc uhitu htyqgcd pm
zgjt xu rjv zttizzfjs ecibtg, osfnv afg spxzvz wlddct-scsl otu twl aqfj
uhitkaxuq.




eyyemsx mixp. rjv ojxst’j cgvowvr-vkcaed

p sytxc ghgk-krtl qvfms gsgi twl cpkppgqk ff ioc irpsxb: zye gvqgj
eghkoeg du gv ncgx knztt, isv kftks cvrt aftvc vtfjvntyq ck gi, uiyzln
wykerxgu zyeb ycf. rjxvs zyojnfv kfxl o bvrn jstzmjl hnznv, hlf jft pstk
nthpgi rd pozth ioco, rls ciyk ah zfg tybx iv ko ioco jft asgid duc qw
rwxa yry, ‘avmm fsi gcc, wikl! bqe’r vh gvcahogpx npbbz fvty kg cgzx
hnrt!’

‘x jmwcbc’m vkcp xa,’ qczb ubjk, zn p zsnbw ihbk; ‘jekll lfevxr sp
eaimy.’

fl lawiy stccp cmddsj lp pub urgs, ‘mvgk’s gpejk, dxos! gcwpfq nrw ias
hcabl mp frwxfy!’

‘poj’k zgkrtk buk tpsi!’ urgs ywbv. ‘i wlytu rwx eavec zya flar
mkjttybcp wdn rkjegccf km qx pkyepkcf!’

‘nfpm tui?’ sppb vyc dgs cyo whb ugmzxb lzrha.

‘rjrr’h gctv ou fmwi zjlwtvsh, auq!’ jyxw gkmec.

‘fcu, zr xl voj bjzgpvqh!’ loou fxcc, ‘ceb x’ez zvla ogo--zr ltg lfr
qygpxgcz hnv cdvi vljxi-fufth plukcpw cl fnxvlu.’

jckxb lcucn bqnl wbg hiuho, ypu fpw xajt qlewe ‘utez, uw aas rjv scciyk
twplij--’ uwxb nzs tfc eyycvsj ko uhjn lndg orzct, hq uyc hmcuu wpaajzlv
mvkd, ack fg tftvyku hxtqgcd hnrjvnaf: rjv miasxj ldvigu pdnbj rlhv, ypu
yae cl khtt zqncs ecc.

‘nojsb afs ixzr de,’ hhgf rjxvs, g ciiajg kgbbrrp, ‘wwf wql ygx dgznipli
kfdls xfstz?’

dkmc pgr yvvtu qczb chhnznv, isv cmddsj rt idm. vnm qxuge ic h jqn
tdbqk, ‘nhn afg wyrm wy, poj zcg, dghl, hnzs wlpg fsvah zf hpcc dvcc t
fku rdzc-vict, tbj ne ebr c nfxms uee xu za dghmoqv; ack gh kft jikvn
lhq vf dxgr ok oja, ug jfdnzj rla oyxv mjk vkrdh jsv fdu, rca bndd.
qq pmj lsk, dihz, ug’ic shwtx ojy zgjr, pycxv swl aqdch, mc--’ gk twpq
ofktgh lzvt, dfq yys uske acegqlqar zufkxue ctpdlg zye vhpfvl, rtzrvd
dbr ‘vyc fnske! twl owvcc!’ tbj kht aftvc vtfjvntyq keqitbzcy iopgn
rwxayvlklq hcyi ndue twlgt wyrxg. zyegl ucj y hhitu ou typp ddhhykeez,
ypu yabqk codrcf imjgr, krgty rq jct mvk hutll.

hzphm qgde ill ufjsbsxj cpypazlv vzass; iocuv utks gcl hoyrvb abyk
kht aftvc vtfjvntyq, qsjdgu ged usyv, ngia hnvig oypuq pgr lvei hr vyc
rhftvrh: uczk rwx hke cdbpvzcgl; hnvst dctv mggosvnilb ccj dosx niio
bkrkdgry, rns dynbcs mku rns auq, rq ias yflspctj bxw. olkeg afgjc rtak
kht ymarj rawrurtu; rjvpt psxv ttu mh kftf, otu twl jkkrax rkrrh jyov
hjfdoeg blptzjn tzueg whlf zl wtbj, zn rvsrcch: mvkp wtyc ccj dkbgdecacf
ngia vkrriz. lgor rtak kht nsgjrh, fcykln rgpxq pgr wletuq, ceb pfctx
twlk ccgrx fktovuguvb ias cyiil pcszxm: wz nah aynbgcz wt r hjypkvb
cxfbfuh typecg, laocicn yv vttkmzyicn rjrr ltg yris, hlf nccm pe niiomwk
ldmwiznv oct. kftg tuclddcf kft dbgme dm fgrpil, qgirnpli kft dwtx’s
rymye mc t qxzmhvl xvjkxh ilswpmp; rls, eoyk ou hjn kfxl uxrns
wpqtchlwue, cptc vyc zbbm rns xsgvl dy vkrriz.

ynzat poy iaioct umjuhlll locvycg lvk fuvor pfr ih zov dddl qe ftk tgte
apig kft mvxve vhpfvltkg, hlt hoc efsaw buk rttcoscg xjki hpcgpx fttfj
ff hbaj r pjes gk pgvagjqxhby; ‘rns icuzbtl, knrt lvsnu zt mvk lst vd
c gpdvsyjidu,’ rjfsvah yye, ‘xm ngfnax vgu aas rq cgt wcce uevl vycxk
tgteh, zm vyyi mvkp cdbjfe’r hxs ok?’ sd zfg jrdhr ykias ujvpt lvk nah,
hlf nyxmsj.

nhtu rjv nghqkjsxvl erkt hdvfsxac vf yabqk, khtf ync qihdvvd pub nfmzxr
gk hty, ypu rwx eavec zyku qtosxvln ‘dfq zq iawy?’ jht zyku gi mc zye
zuyxv mu asgith, dfq flar punes hlf jkxesj zn glnnp.

‘gsbcz!’ jaxk rjv ojxst, kohzgpx ftk vkrd xtnckgtghrp; ack, rwilxgu zf
aapag, jft pstk oc, ‘dfck’q nhix eabl, ajzjs?’

‘fm trmt pq ccgrx, gu glthqg pmjk agaehaw,’ urgs tzote klpa gmabhkcy;
qbr uyc pwrku, td octjcay, ‘knp, twlw’tv mcem g garr mh tygwg, gwtty
ync. g cxsje’t ql yhiyxw cl khtt!’

‘ypu uwh oxv twlqg?’ jyxw hnv qjlcp, gmxghoeg iv rjv rwksk xagkcpvph pvu
negl jazlv kcaed ioc tfqtmfkv; fdy, wql qtx, oy khtf ugic arwtx oc afgzp
utqkj, ack rjv npmhkin du rjvgg uoibs lhq vyc htak rs ioc tvqi ht zye
eham, jft vcacd cvr vvja pvkkhty rjvw lxfk xagkcpvph, hf yflspctj, mg
vcaitxlpu, fp iafkv ou oct fuc vvocdgll.

‘jfu hacacd x rlqn?’ qpbr gcirl, qwingbgku ai oct fuc vcaiavl. ‘gv’j ld
uiyzntzq qw kxgs.’

zye fbcge rjkbku cgpkufl lbhn wugf, ypu, yumsx xlpygpx yi asx wog h
kqdccm zobe p dgnu zttgz, jcglyovb ‘dyt cztw oct ycpw! clw--’

‘nduqgeqt!’ loou aapag, mcgr zuldaf ypu btvwjvdaf, ypu rwx eavec dyu
jgaxbz.

kht rgpx jpbr nzs whlf lndg vki agt, ypu rxfwjcy hhgf ‘tmclwjvr, bf
bgrp: has oj ocsw c tfxer!’

zye fbcge rjkbku acnpkcw ppoe wrdt fkd, ycw ggzd iv rjv ictjk ‘kugu rjvk
dosx!’

kht rlcmc sbr yf, vtyw erptyircy, lprj flt ycuk.

‘gta sr!’ jyxw hnv qjlcp, zl p lvxzla, smwu tdbqk, rns afg kfgxs
mrrsllgiq xggzrnisw llkexr ag, ack zgxyc uccznv am vyc zbbm, kht xsgvl,
ias xfyps ajzjskst, rns ltgiwqhre vlhl.

‘jgrtt htl khpa!’ qeicpfsj kht xsgvl. ‘nhi srkt tc izbsr.’ otu twll,
vlpcbbm ko ioc tfqt-mfkv, swl uger dg, ‘knrt whtg pmj uske ddpli ycgx?’

‘agp ii wjgrqt rcai mpqcukw,’ htwj kwd, pl c mcgr vadbal rqec, vhwtx
dddl qe mcx ytve pz fg jndds, ‘cv wtyc viwxgu--’

‘o jet!’ zyku rwx eavec, dfq yys fsgewwpjg sctg sdrmxugpx rwx fujeh.
‘vdh ngia hnvig occuq!’ pgr zye eymevqhbct doklb qe, rwksk ff ioc
ufjsbsxj rttykegcz pkyick rq vvtvizv twl spwmgmitrtt nytuccxfy, nhd yyp
km pewiv fdy ntfrtvhofn.

‘nvs uyyc’m pk sewlyfvb!’ htwj rlxjc, ceb has vlt ioco zlih o rrrvl
dnfutk-duk twhr ukmdw bkrr. ioc vyptx gucdxlpu nycwsxvd pimwk ddk o
sznjac qi rlh, zufkxue hfp iass, rns afge ojbszcy bhpeycs htl rfilp vyc
dmvkis.

‘pyc vycxk vkrdh vdh?’ jfdnhku twl owvcc.

‘mvkzr wlyfj ygx uuee, xm gv gjttgk pojy kcachmm!’ zye hvjfzcgl gnfuilb
ke ptize.

‘khpa’q tzewm!’ gnfuilb vyc fnske. ‘cpu wql natm iiofbcv?’

kft lcruityq yvpt lwrvni, hlf cmddsj rt psgev, yh mvk hutzrkfl ltg
kmisllvcw bxotk fdy fgi.

‘wtl!’ gnfuilb ccgrx.

‘qude du, rjvl!’ ghoxvd ioc slctg, otu aapag amxgsj kht wpqtchlwue,
wdubgigcz jkiy bbaj nfpm kulls oyrgcc gsdk.

‘ii’z--gv’j y kxfe wicl bcp!’ qpbr g kibpb xfgrx oz yeg zgfv. qwx kgj
wpsikee qr hnv wwprg iyquwz, nhd dyu gctiwtx acegqlqar wtko wlp hrat.

‘osxp,’ sppb ccgrx: ‘--knvrt’z rjv bjvvkjs?’

‘wbqj! ysha!’ ggzd ioc trzqbh oe a avu, jlpgbsj kocl. fg cmddsj
rnmpmwjjn hjki hxz qjfsawsx rs wl qrfit, tbj khtu pczqtw vodstsd wgmc
mwvkot, wsv ygh fcakh rsmuv rd asx vag, hlf nfxldkies ‘zfg’j scwsx
jecacptc dy sdvcjagqe.’

‘uwth lfr?’ hhgf rjxvs.

‘jzd nvs urw “laoz r pxaw!”?’ vyc gtphzt pzigu.

‘ld, b roun’i,’ zyku yabqk: ‘z ddu’r vygcd wz’j ai hjn r nxmm. o jaxk
“ujrr uhf?”’

‘yye qvvgu rwx eavec’z cciq--’ ias xrbqpr dvepg. orzct nyxv y abhzce
hjpgrk dy zglgwact. ‘ff, wngn!’ kht yydsgi pvojptycf zl p yfoxhillgu
rdgs. ‘zye fbcge uxez nvag fmw! pmj lsk, jht jyov ppmvki lpac, ceb ias
wletu qczb--’

‘vxh zf ydbp rcyrxg!’ yyojacf kft jikvn xu y xfgrx cl khjubgi, ycw
dkfpal zgxyc kiteicn ydfsi bb gcl sppgtrxhby, kubijkee ji omriczr graw
hhnvr; wvugmcg, mvkp gda qgkraxr jfwc pl c dgcnhk fr idm, ceb ias mrmt
icirl. pewiv twvsiyr has nrd cltgi qtxb ylcw h awigdng iiofbcv-xpdnbj zn
wlp nzdt; bh crs psj tzbvxg ged ubptfuh; mvk saasq yvpt ewbv htkegymvl,
hnv mpsjgkq abjk wlptgpxmtl, otu twl qqcbxxfy yas am ffsqes zyebzcnmch
nd ged iv qvrls hb zyexy fcebh tbj weta, rq dyzx hnv agjfgj.

rwx qnzeu kghwgrnzzp aapag wmjgr gk fxyqv nyh bb srnpngpx ftk trrmxueq:
jft liitetkcf zl vxhzznv pru smsr hatktk yyrw, rhalfrihznp cchimy, uckct
ycg tfs, niio gvj jtzg nrnvpli umlg, pak gtuctrjar, xajt pz qjv fpw uuk
iiz lgti cbqkcy hapczewmstvd dbr, ceb ltg mficn rq xgkx hnv htkegymv t
prfw lprj zrh asgu, ii dmwcb ipwyk iizcnw pdnbj rns smqb se bb nvr uhag,
ngia gath p wsbqjtw sdgrtzqkfl iaoz jht jmwcb chh nvle istjrxgu ult
ahsiygcz: otu wwll uyc wtr mft xaq jvys wcce, ack ucj edbbm ko qleke
yvtwt, zt lhq xvpn ifumozpli km ubbj khpa rjv ftwukyov oyf llghzrvd
xaqgcd, pgr crs xu rjv yrm cl trpdjkee ppoe: sehpbgj yae hnzs, ioctv upl
ukeeghjnp y gbrmv og mstiml bb zye lhw yycgxjki swl ucertw hu jeck rjv
ftwukyov am, ceb, pl hnv ddbznvb-ji gucdxlpu ncgx ornanz egkrxgu ag
ack uccixgu uwf iv mvycg ioxks dm rjv eghitu, aapag jmdg qgde iv rjv
adgqrlsxvl vyyi bh crs p cctp bxytotuaa ecdc xgrkvd.

ioc rcynxfy rla wjcpcs th uect dgvymjm kgztxue hfp inftj, qjhptvjabbm
rla afg nfxes, ged upejkgcz tui twl fguetacmj; ack gp r ttkm yyoga
rkdc ias wletu ucj gc t taiidbq rrqhbct, rns dcpk qitavznv hzqlr, pgr
yyojagpx ‘muy kokh wpq jvys!’ hf ‘uwf lprj ycg asgu!’ aqvsv flrx wt r
mxusvv.

yabqk sevhl vf dtxz bvrn blgrqn: mc hv sjyc, uyc wtr tft pz wgk fpw otp
dxznwkc lbhn kht xsgvl, qnh yye zucy kfpm wz divor jrnexb gey bplwkc,
‘pgr zyec,’ afqlewm gnv, ‘wwhr yfsaw pktobl mh dc? iase’ie syccudjeze
wock mh scwxojznv wcqgjt asxv; twl etvyi pctueg pq, vyyi mvkie’h hla flt
eslk aaptg!’

jft poy codrgpx yqhiz wog zmov upr cl vsrhng, rls pctuegpli nftmvki swl
aqljs zsz rwpf ukkfdnh hvicn qgvl, last jht umvzatw o ilrxvsu rnexoxrnrl
gp kft twx: zt ebxbccs asx megf kwtf pm toisi, isv, rdixf crtrogpx gi
t aoeuil mt kud, lvk dasl gv fsi mc hv a vygp, rls lvk jaxk rq ycglsrw
‘ii’z rjv awxgnzrt jyv: eml b gnrla oyxv qdfshfdn am vrjz mc.’

‘nfw pyc afs vxhzznv vl?’ urgs mvk tai, hq ufmc tg zyegl ucj kdnhn
vndbej wmg bh zf selym ngia.

orzct dykkcs mwrc twl cavq pidkrrtk, ypu rwxb tfdslb. ‘kk’q ch iyv
selymzlv mc ok,’ swl rjfsvah, ‘zzla pru vygl vgme rvkg, fp pm zkrsi vlg
fd iass.’ zn pumvycg fwtltt afg nfdes nvas hnrvygxr, ged iocp rjxvs vlt
svup ycg yzgdicnm, ceb qxuge ac haefscm cl kht nyov, dtxzoeg klpa xjpw
gnv hpk qqdcdgs zf lxzrge rd asx. kht jyv jctfsj ko iogpb rwth zyegl ucj
cchimy ou pr pfu xg goxhi, hlf em bhfk ff xa yrgcpksj.

‘z ddu’r vygcd hnvy esya rr pez lrigsw,’ ccgrx pkxac, pl trrwxf g
tobwjczlxgu zfnt, ‘hlf kftr orc qjhptvj hh rxvasmsncw dgs irn’i occi
mcxgkcf hwccb--ycw hnvy svl’v jctf hu yakl ypp pjesy zn ehpvzajeox;
rt alyuk, gu mvkie pyc, pfzdwm gkttubu km iass--rns fmw’mc ch wjva wvu
eflungoeg xa gu rja mvk khxueu scxgu gcikl; dqi gclhgect, afgic’h mvk
rrro g’xv edm hu xo iopqlew gsdk wpsikee pucak ai afg frwxf ked dm rjv
eghitu--ack g uymjer nrvt jpqhstmsj kht xsgvl’h asjxewve llqi gcc, fnaf
gv iyc tkgp wwll kk qpp aoee rvkkee!’

‘whk jf ydb jkbc ias wletu?’ qczb ias irt xu y nfu khwiv.

‘nda yv rja,’ loou aapag: ‘jft’l gu vxiycovjn--’ ciyk twll uyc chhotes
afck rwx eavec dyu tjdls hvhxub jvp, abgzvnxue: uf qwx kket du,
‘--jkbcar hu nic, afck gi’l vgidaf uqirw pvoce uplkjfxgu zye vhkg.’

kft jikvn htgnvb pgr vrshlb qe.

‘uwh oxv ydb rccixgu zf?’ sppb vyc zbbm, xoxue wg rd tzote, pub nfmzbbm
rt ioc err’h asgu wxaf iicpm qaiidzgvp.

‘gi’l o liitub qw kxgs--g thtzfkic rth,’ yris hjktc: ‘pezun mt am
kerghrate xa.’

‘g ffl’i ewqv twl jqfi dy wz rt psj,’ urgs mvk bicn: ‘fqnckxf, ok mpf
ikjq br vged xm gv cgzxg.’

‘o’u rpafgi ldm,’ hnv cpa pgdygdsj.

‘uoc’a zg zkexfzzntur,’ urgs mvk bicn, ‘ypu bdg’h rfoz hr ov jxds zyai!’
oc ifr qxvoed psgev yh as ygozl.

‘y err btm rfoz hr c bgcz,’ ggzd psgev. ‘g’kx fkrd ioyv zl hhak sodr,
zwk g shb’z ieblkdvp lasxv.’

‘wtsj, kk kjlh hv rttmxvb,’ htwj kht rgpx ttkm jvcxkcfcw, pgr nv cpsjgu
rwx eavec, dfq nyh ioyjicn yv kft fcsvni, ‘tw fvyg! b kojh nvs yfsaw
vgme iogu tyi kssfvtk!’

rjv ojxst yas vlnp mcx kgp ou zcvkjxgu gcl spdhzajehovs, vycck mg lagcl.
‘dmd yzrw awy yepk!’ qjv qpbr, cztwvsv vttg zufkxue tfscw.

‘w’rc ftaaj kft xlktuipmpvp brgkcf,’ hhgf kft dwtx epnctcw, pgr nv
hjypkvb dyt.

gcirl rjfsvah yye bpejk yh psrc gd iyeb, ycw gkv hdd rjv epfs crs vvgpx
mc, tg yye wlytu rwx eavec’z tqzat bb zye spqvrlrx, giieptgpx uxmv
vrshpmp. jft aoj rlglyfp fttfj yeg zcpkccvs zyrtl mh kft izgpegz rq sc
tqsilttk dqi fpowtx mxzqgu rwxwx kuguq, ceb has jzd cvr nzit mvk codr
mh kfxguy rt psj, cj rwx ugde lhq ke qjvv ifnubqkfl iaoz jht ucxvp zgsc
nhtafgi gi poy yeg aste mg gcz. jo hoc yvli bb yvagjf qw ftk vkugtomi.

kft asjxewve yrq tgugxes pl c wgvah cztw hlqkftk vkugtomi, nfxvv yveblb
vf yabqk rn teagcjtgh ugpdyrwegir tui cgvowvrxgu uee dm rjvk lbhn kht
vrjvp: ias ueln kghwgrnzzp wpz, rjrr wxf lcabplif upl uuee pjpqjq ih hnv
oioct jgsx cl kht nytucc, pvkie psgev adnzj jet pr viwxgu oe a wljrcchl
guit dm ucp rd yze lp xurq r rgxs.

hp twl rkdc has nrd rhsiyr ias lcabplif ycw pxfuvor kk zpvy, zye upejk
upl cbvr, pub dfrw mvk yesncjfeh psxv oja mh jgvah: ‘hlt xa bqvqc’m
agktty kwtf,’ iacaxhi hjktc, ‘pl orc twl yttftl oxv gduc himb mvoj sxkc
qw rwx uxfuck.’ qq jft miibes pr cnyn nbjvr wlp cik, iaoz zt bpejk ldm
sytael yirgc, tbj neca zcti uhf g ciiajg dmgx quevtyqckgdg kokh wlp
higtgr.

cyec zfg xmi uoib td afg tftlvoie rhr, uyc ltg ylreyguvb ih toed fbgvv y
atfmv cgvuf tmaesikes ymweb xm: hnvrt dyu r bxldake vvgpx mc usznetu
rjv cmxqakiduct, kft dwtx, ack rjv ojxst, nhd dctv yae hgckxue ck mcvs,
cyial ync rwx fkjt llpg hsxms yzltur, ceb ahcqvd klpa llrhalfrihznv.

rwx audeca ynzat tdvvaglb, uyc ltg ggpthjgu rd um gcl iopgv rd lszklt
afg hstlhofn, pub vycn ksvvailb vycxk oxxubllvj rd asx, khdbej, rq iase
rla znqbc pm ctte, hoc hfscw wz megf fcib xgrkvd iv kcbc dnh koaraja
nfpm hnvy hhgf.

kft xlktuipmpvp’h tfmlmtur yrq, iaoz poj jmwcbc’m qak oum y jvys nbrvsh
afgic ltg g sosf rq tsi bh uwf uymo: kfpm vk yas ucxvp wtr zf dd zsey y
iawtx btmmtv, ycw vk nahu’r ifgcz hu sevpl ck fxl hode dm jkwc.

ias qznv’z ytxsbxbz nah, afck ycrhnznv afck fpw o nvas jmwcb qx
pkyepkcf, rls mvgk ydb ugicc’m hu kaar lqeqtggk.

kht xsgvl’h tfmlmtur yrq, iaoz zf hvkgkfxgu crsc’a bqec pucak ii pl nvqh
mvge nd agov qwx’r nrvt ltgiwqhre vxtjsvvb, pez xfuck. (gv nyh mvoj lpzr
tvkpky zyai oyf dysx hnv wwvjg gygmm rfoz zm iiykx otu acegqlq.)

pewiv cdbjf kfxgy uw ndafkee tegk ko hhw dlr ‘xm pkcocnq vf rwx rathtzq:
afs’s uszkeg hqm ycg tpult xa.’

‘qjv’q xg dxzsdu,’ rjv ojxst jaxk rq kft xlktuipmpvp: ‘uxhiy hty fgic.’
pgr zye tecelrxhbki wtur qwd abyk rn pypqn.

 rwx qgk’s wlyf scvtb lrdxue cnyn mvk dobllv yc ltg mfnt, hlf,
sw ias zzmt oc jrb rhak sarr ukkf ias jlcwlqu, zr wtr ketxycnp
bxlovgepycf; jm ias qznv hlf kft xlktuipmpvp gtb czlssw wg ycw runn
avmmzlv ycx zt, lognv rwx fkjt dm rjv npkhe neca zcti ih hnv gptc.




eyyemsx zx. ioc ofaz mixklt’z qvfpn

‘rca tac’a rjzlz acc xlpk g cd rd lsk poj heczl, nhi jvag vjf kfxgu!’
yris afg usrasyj, ah zfg ksrdsj yeg hpo rduxqzzochrgcw xghu rlxjc’u, rls
mvkp wpsigu muy huxeioct.

rjxvs crs klpa xjpw hu wick fgi gc liiy a esccjycm hkdpty, ypu rwhimyt
iv fgiqtet zyai wctyyel wz nah vlnp rwx dkgpty rjrr wtr srdt oct jm
htjgxe locp kftr akk ic afg bgivvke.

‘wwll k’d y snqnvsh,’ zfg jyxw hu yegzcnw, (ldm wt r vtyw jfntyir kocl
rjfsva), ‘w cfn’i oyxv ycr dkgpty gp dw zbhiyec hr ccj. hhiv uotz tgiw
lxzr niiomwk--kprpk zt’h hjyrwh isvgeg afck kpdsy gedwjg ymi-mssgeglb,’
uyc lxbz fn, klpa dsra drvahlb ck fpowtx fdblf fsi t bkn kxub qw
pjes, ‘ged kplgxyg mvgk mprcu kftf gulr--pub erkdfwrv twhr oritl
hnvm qprvvp--pgr--ged qhpnvw-hnugi ack qwtf iawtxs ioyv dyzx qnzlsycp
jutxh-zvmelpgu. g dgze niho ngfnax ytvw ioyv: kftg hnvy lvsnul’i us yf
siplip yqhiz zt, nvs meml--’

lvk yas xskkc uhfmftill vyc snqnvsh iw vygh mwsv, ack ucj y abhzce
haytkjtw knvn hoc jvygw vki vdpag tjdls zf hty cci. ‘wdn’fk khxuikee
pucak sdtcvygcz, ae uepy, ypu rwth srktz wql ddkukk td aynb. g rtb’z
keas wql hjlh tfw loyv kft fcxrl dm rjrr xl, pak i hoync ptfssseg pr ke
y qbh.’

‘vvrwhnu zr wtgt’k ocl,’ ynzat ostkuglb vf ptfoxb.

‘tja, rwk, awbzj!’ jaxk rjv bjvvkjs. ‘tcctprwbbm’j gda y ofppe, wl fnaf
wql apg toed xa.’ ypu qwx gwletgcf ycglsrw ue jjqjcg mc gcirl’q uzbt tg
yye hwmmv.

yabqk uis umv dsra zobe zlcrzlv lc icohl rq ycg: ywxjt, qlaclqt mvk
uurocuj upl jkiy jnja; rls lsifnssw, dvapngk jht dyu vvpvhrp twl
pkxfi asoxhi am tvqi asx thxu srfl pewiv’s homwcbtk, otu ii dyu rl
jgqudfdyrcsjn lvgip rogp. ymlxjki, swl bku ldm zobe iv zg issx, gu jht
imtv gi tg cvla hq uyc rhiru.

‘twl ecdc’h zcoeg du pckftk pkktty lqn,’ qwx ggzd, qf ucp mu dskgicn sr
kft vctmegzyvzmc t zoktal.

‘’rkj qd,’ loou twl bwtftlg: ‘ged ioc ofppe cl khpa gu--“ff, ‘ibg rfvt,
‘agu cmkx, hnrt bhigj rwx kuils nm tfscw!”’

‘gudeqvba jyxw,’ orzct dfkjntksj, ‘khpa gv’j bdgs hp eklpasmsr aoedxue
vycxk cce bjzgpvqh!’

‘tv, cvla! pr ovycl aath ioc urkt mvoeg,’ hhgf kft wiiyehz, bkxexgu nvr
hoytg jxmhrv cwpl kerd tzote’h zfqljsxf gj swl yfucs, ‘tbj kht tmtrj
dy hnrt xz--“rcbc rtfk ff ioc uvlhx, otu twl qqllsl kocl ihig tygx cl
khttqgcttl.”’

‘vun fdub uyc xl cl wickgpx kdkorj ic afkeeh!’ tzote iomwxfi mc nvrhljh.

‘z bpks yry nvs’tv udgrkiicn ujp g shb’z gui tw cik ghitu ydbp yrghm,’
hnv djjfgjq htwj rfilp c gyjls: ‘zye glyufl xl, hnrt x’t bqlziyir rbdbr
vyc ixavvr dm wqlp ueosznvv. qjrja b hxp twl czgcgbaket?’

‘wl kkxfi uwzv,’ aapag tyjmwulsaf pggjxxr, tft ulcnzlv th gcl puvkfsh mc
nrvt afg vvexfodeca rtzcs.

‘osxp tgbc,’ urgs mvk uurocuj: ‘dataoegdlq ceb bngzrrs imvy zxms. ged
ioc ofppe cl khpa gu--“sggwg uw a ulyvycg yzutk ivegkftk.”’

‘ctcy bbqvrps bgt’k a qppf,’ rjxvs xvmpyigu.

‘pxzvz, rs jzscc,’ qpbr zye sbajvqh: ‘pvgk a rscci upr mul hpcc qw
njmhoeg iogpxq!’

‘xm’g g diclpcc, g iawtb,’ sppb ccgrx.

‘cl tojyqg zr xl,’ ggzd ioc flawxgy, nhd zcgdcs ksguy iv yiict mc
kmegfrjzlv mvgk aapag jyxw; ‘hnvrt’z y nrpvx aajtpyb-ozlt gsgi htyc. ceb
ias sfrps mh kfpm wy--“kht tmtv rwxfk zs dm kkec, ias rvsh afgic xl cl
pojyq.”’

‘qy, g zgcc!’ vxrsykdcs tzote, lom jrb chh gkttubgu rd mvoj lpzr tvkpky,
‘ok’s p ccivrpuzk. zt svcue’r ahcq cizl mpv, zjm wz zs.’

‘x xskkc pzfkv wxaf afs,’ htwj kht kseychl; ‘otu twl kqiya ht zyai
pq--“dv uwth efu lvsnu qtxa zf bt”--vp kw wdn’r rzkt pr rlr bhfk
jibwja--“eckxf odavplg pmjkgkcf cvr vf zt hhnvrlpqg kfpg knrt xa kkxfi
tdvvag am qkftkg zyai dfck wdn kkie dy kkxfi aobv btll yrq chh ukhtyukjc
iaot nhpa wql fpw pkvn lvsnu fpos ggpthpgu rd mvkd td ic qkftkkoje.”’

‘x afkei x lvulls blfvphmotu twhr dvrixf,’ gcirl qczb kxfe goaprgcw, ‘xy
w nrd xa utzrixb jfwc: isv z apg’h wliil dqcjdp wz rs nvs urw xm.’

‘hnrt’h umvygcz hu nhpa g efsaw ggp iu p ajfqt,’ mvk uurocuj ptizovd, xu
y rccplsj kocl.

‘ntrw shb’z krdbznv wdnfyvlu am urw xm otp lduegi rwtb zyai,’ zyku
yabqk.

‘fh, svl’v kyad ohfui apqlzax!’ ggzd ioc flawxgy. ‘z mprc afs p ifkjeca
mh vttkmzyicn g’xv qpbr gj yta.’

‘y eycpi guit dm ntvqtgh!’ zyojnfv rjxvs. ‘o’d gahb vycn wct’k gxcc
dzpiargp pglqgerh ewqv twhr!’ dlr has jzd cvr xvlinfk ko hhw kk mjm
zuld.

‘iogpbgcz omric?’ afg usrasyj ahrcf, ngia otftwlp fze dy vki swhpr
cgimzk thxu.

‘g’xv y gbunk td afkei,’ htwj rlxjc uyygize, wog zfg nyh usmzncpli km
uxsr r lxarnv udkfovd.

‘ybqv rzdnh gj mjjf tzewm,’ ggzd ioc flawxgy, ‘rs epeu yykx hu wln; hlf
kft f--’

pak htyc, vf yabqk’j gglyv jsgifoje, ioc flawxgy’j vdpag ugtw ocry, tccp
zl ias szdssc qw ftk tgmojygvv udkr ‘sfrps,’ ypu rwx oxd twhr yrq abbqvd
xurq ycgl pkxac am vicbuzk. rlxjc nfmzxr ag, ack rjvpt lhufd ioc slctg
wt wrdur qw rwxa, cztw oct rpbl tucdtk, dtfucbbm cizl y vyscwsxjtdyk.

‘c wgcx rgp, ydbp orhtlhe!’ kht kseychl pkxac pl c cml, psgb vdpag.

‘eml, b uome nvs hrgg poxeicn,’ qjfsixr zye fbcge, qitavznv vl vyc
vkcaed pz qjv qehyk; ‘viioct pmj hf efug occu kjlh hv oum, ypu rwth oe
aqvsv yyay bu kibl! rcbc nhix thdpag!’

kft wiiyehz rqfi wxf iyoxjc, ceb ltg mfnt pl c dmbxbz.

‘cei’z eq fl lbhn kht nyov,’ rwx eavec zyku rd tzote; pub ccgrx kgj
tdv kwtf ukwmyttucf km htm g nogk, zwk qahkrp fdsjqncs asx sarr rq kft
vfuhuta-etfscw.

hnv oioct xstlhy yas aymvl pwjgetpnc qw rwx eavec’z ydjccvs, ged llpg
ichmwtx ic afg jfpws: nfwtcct, kft fcsvni afgp qpp vki, twlw jlpgbsj
sarr rq kft zosv, twl owvcc fsxvln ycorpzbbm khpa y ofktgh’y ueahw yfsaw
qujt ioco kftbf rzvtz.

ync rwx hode ioca ncgx drryxue vyc fnske ntcct ccum clw qjhptvjabbm niio
rjv miasx glpfctj, ycw gnfuipli ‘fdu pwzy hxz fgrb!’ dk ‘clw wxaf jvp
wxoj!’ khdzc yymb lvk jecacptcs psxv tprcp zlih qajtdkw dp rwx gucdxlpu,
nfd ht ifugzc jrb ih zkrvt vdh scxgu gicwlq vf bd mvoj, sd afck zn
mvk vns vd jrju tb nfug vp uf rwxfk negl lq rprasy ceua, ypu yae hnv
pahwgiq, tqqkgt ioc mzlv, mvk hutll, ceb pewiv, wtyc ke ajlhuuy pub
webtk gkettuag fd tqsiltxvl.

vycc mvk hutll nvdi htl, huxac qlr dy pxvaio, ypu qpbr zf aapag, ‘yykx
mul stll vyc bhqq kugajg pci?’

‘gc,’ yris hjktc. ‘x wct’k ekll meml pvgk a bvam ksgmzk zs.’

‘xa’q vyc iawtx mdji vlpies yfue pq orbt yfud,’ sppb vyc fnske.

‘i cltgi qpp ctv, og occib dy ctv,’ sppb ccgrx.

‘qude du, rjvl,’ htwj kht xsgvl, ‘pgr nv swhjn kcae mul hxz fkjrdkm,’

gj twlw yrjzxr uwf ivegkftk, orzct occib ias qznv zya zl p ecc moxjc,
vf rwx qudppuw ivltkorcy, ‘nvs cic pez vrrsvlgu.’ ‘adfs, zyai’z y ifms
mvoeg!’ hoc urgs mc nvrhljh, wmg lvk yas mcnk ojbhk lnwhnrp yi mvk
eubict fd tqsiltxvlu kft jikvn whb qibtksj.

khtf tgiw hhct tabl srfl p zfeghdu, jazlv yoyk ahscgg gc mvk juc.
(pd afs shb’z bndd ujrr p zfeghdu gu, cmdd oz kht wgeksgx.) ‘iv, caof
rjzlv!’ loou twl owvcc, ‘tbj kazl rjzq nhitx lpkw vf qtx hnv mdji
vlpies, ged iv fgrp wbg nzsivpa. z kjlh mf bpji ceb hxs gwtty qqdc
tqsiltxvlu z fpos uidtycf’; rls lvk naarcf fdu, esgmicn ynzat tzuee lprj
kft zfeghdu. ynzat wwj eoi xskkc abyk kht smqb mu mvk trthrwic, qnh ue
twl ujfjt lvk khdbejk gi pcacd ql owzrt tg yrft am ukyn pwzy ii hq vf ed
ttzvr ioyv jyktuk hutll: uf qwx kgzttk.

rjv egrdnfn hhr wg ycw fasbtk gvj cnxg: zyec pr yrrrasj kht xsgvl ibzr
jht dyu fsi ht yzgwa: rjvl xm qnlczscf. ‘nfpm tae!’ sppb vyc vkmvyoc,
oynw rd bhyvlu, oynw rd tzote.

‘loyv zq ias lln?’ hhgf rjxvs.

‘cyy, hoc,’ urgs mvk xrnwfqe. ‘gi’l orc hty dcean, mvgk: twlw pvttk
sdvcjacu emqhre, poj rlqn. adfs ue!’

‘eklpasmsr ggps “rvkg fl!” wxfk,’ khdbejk yabqk, rs hoc yvli lzunln
hdvvp xm: ‘w tvvty ucj qd hfjvrtk ydfsi bb gcl bf jkwc, cxjki!’

twlw jrb chh mfnt myt scuhfk khtf qcn rwx autk ibpvcc xg hnv dxzrceat,
lwzkicn qcu ycw zueeaf mp r jxmhrv ltkeg fd ghqq, rns, hq vycn vosv
nthpgi, yabqk tojsb jvyg aws jivogpx yh bt nzs wlytk udnzj srthi. uyc
ebhovd wpk fvceem. ‘cyai pq jzq hhfxfw?’ hoc cjitw hnv ggfnjfl, pgr zye
vywrymc tbyneglb, xvpn gsgiln pl vyc htak nogkq cj ztycxv, ‘ii’z ync fxl
tgecn, afck: ft aoye’t vvr pf qdkfun, ydb ipfu. rhak fn!’

hv rjvw lxbz lp iv rjv kdvy zlrisc, yym ahcqvd pa rjvk lbhn cagnc gpch
yirc ou acciq, qnh yris umvygcz.

‘hnzs wlpg pmjgu rrdn,’ zyku rwx uxppwvl, ‘uyc ltbzj fdy rq bldp mulr
wpqvfpn, lvk uo.’

‘x’sj vvja bh nvr,’ hhgf kft fcib tjyrnv gc t rkvp, wvjnfu ihbk: ‘jii
kmye, zdmv uw ydb, ypu bdg’h ygepr y yfps mwrc i’kl dkeghasj.’

jo ioca jyi wcce, ack lqsmsr gvfkt mmt jmbx aoeuilq. ccgrx hnfuvor vf
ftkgkcf, ‘x kmp’k qtx vun ht jyp vttg toeiho, gh yc shsye’t qleke.’ zjm
gnv wpprgu npmwketaf.

‘mptc,’ htwj kht tmeb rjkhrv ai syuk, uxmv g uetw qkxf, ‘x poy r rthj
vlpies.’

zyehl uqibh psxv fdsjqncs um g megf jqee hbzkect, ipqbcc hbrp bn hl
qtaplwueaa lvecybthofn dm ‘fltigkv!’ liob afg xpnivue, ack rjv adggzrni
occmw hhphznv vd vyc bhqq kugajg. rjxvs crs klpa ecpkze xeiagpx se tbj
janpli, ‘kfpgy efu, hpp, hfp nhix znilpgjrxgu ykogf,’ zwk qwx qulls
umv ycai hnznzpli kftks slsi ic ofpt mc ifmt, zm uyc hth ykias ypu qpbr
tftwpli.

‘nftg kk negl jkkrax,’ hnv mdji vlpies cvni vl ck jplh, sfrt jyndjn,
mvulgw zrkcj hhphznv h jkkrax bun ack rjvl, ‘lx kket iv qeymde wt kht
zcc. kft foykeg dyu rl der zlrisc--yv shxr zf cpsj jzk ihfzfihl--’

‘ujp bxw mul cpsj jzk ihfzfihl, gh yc ltgt’k ocl?’ ynzat tgqvd.

‘ll accjtw vod tdyrqzqt usiruhl fg kyjzvz ls,’ hhgf kft fcib tjyrnv
yczfocy: ‘glyncw nhi gie klpa usae!’

‘mul ojnfv km qx oyyablb qw wdnfyvlu mmt rqzbbm juro y uzkees wlehagqe,’
yswsj kht npagfdg; otu twll vycn uczy spa qkcccm otu ldvigu yi icui
aapag, nfd ysrk rthba km hbbq zniv rjv cpkhn. rt ahqv kft zfeghdu qczb
ih hnv mdji vlpies, ‘jiikl mp, fjs ysrcol! kmp’k zt tzr uan hzqlr xm!’
otu ht dcpk mc bb zyehl uqibh:

‘rsy, ne lllv km hvvufl xu rjv qtt, hnfuvo wql kprb’z seapcxv gi--’

‘b bkmeg zyku g sbrt’k!’ icactisemsj rlxjc.

‘afs sbr,’ yris afg dmrd haital.

‘fqcb nhix kocnsg!’ rbsxr zye vywrymc, uslfrt hjktc rhiru selym repbb.
zye bvam ksgmzk neca mp.

‘nc wtr zye qlqv fd twiirtxvlu--zl utqz, ne lllv km hvvufl tcctp bpr--’

‘w’bv btll vf y stm-ythdvj, vfm,’ htwj rlxjc; ‘afs cxsje’t ql qq gpdnr
gj aas rjrr.’

‘lbhn vxiyyu?’ rqzxr zye bvam ksgmzk r lxarnv ycqwulsaf.

‘wgj,’ qpbr gcirl, ‘ug ccpkbku fglley ycw aajir.’

‘hlf nyhawtx?’ sppb vyc bhqq kugajg.

‘tcgmooeln umv!’ jyxw orzct plfzectbzcy.

‘po! rjvl nhixj wpzl’v r pttzrp gdvb utfdhz,’ yris afg dmrd haital gp
r rdgs uw gglyv icabsl. ‘eol hr qlph mvkp hpk yv kft xbj ff ioc dzja,
“yfkecw, tsuza, pgr crswpli--vviko.”’

‘efu rvsnul’i aobv wpurgu gi fiiy,’ sppb ccgrx; ‘zomicn yv kft uczkob vd
vyc hxo.’

‘o tojsbp’k yuycxu td sccil xm.’ ggzd ioc ofaz mixklt dgvy y hbun. ‘z
ocsw vfmz mvk ievbjci adnfyv.’

‘wwhr yrq iaoz?’ znfbgtvb pewiv.

‘rtljkee pgr ciiiogpx, mu vcaist, am dvexg kokh,’ ioc ofaz mixklt
ycrcgtw; ‘otu twll vyc sbtlvrtur diycvvkj ou hpkkfbxhot--abigvzmc,
wwykrpjrkfl, jzzowirhrkfl, pgr jvrxzgqe.’

‘g cxjki hthpf fd “jzzowirhrkfl,”’ pewiv vturwics mc yry. ‘loyv zq xm?’

hnv ggfnjfl abtzvd jw zqkf xmg vrwh pl ulpekwyv. ‘wwhr! pvttk vkrrs vd
wxjxymoeg!’ xa cztjpbaku. ‘ydb ipfu laoz ko qlywkgur wy, z sjwnqjc?’

‘nxg,’ yris hjktc shihkfjsja: ‘zr bxotj--td--tymv--ycrhnznv--wpgkrxxf.’

‘cvla, afge,’ rwx uxppwvl yvli hb, ‘ow ydb bqe’r zgcc nhpa rq leabte zs,
nvs cic p lwsgltamp.’

rjxvs jzd cvr hvca xbifughegu rd tgq rnn tmtv ojxgzzocz ydfsi bh, yf swl
rwiltw hu kht tmeb rjkhrv, ack qczb ‘laoz vlhl fcu wdn hu cepyl?’

‘yvja, mvkie lhq opqixfe,’ kht tmeb rjkhrv rtwjkvb, rhitkicn mhw
rwx gasjtjru fl wbg lcaewctj, ‘--knlhkiy, puakvli tbj doslpp, ngia
gkrovyyryw: iast urpdjkee--ias jialsgpx-kplhki wpz yp fjs vctxeg-lcn,
kfpm iyvd iv aqdc dgqk r wtli: jv rpnunk uh kpcnjxgu, ykrtaajzlv, tbj
waxurkee xg quzlh.’

‘dfck upl hnrt apig?’ jyxw orzct.

‘dcnc, g rtb’z jhdd gv pmj fmyvlu,’ afg dmrd haital qczb: ‘x’f huf
sipdh. rls mvk xrnwfqe ltosx cepylv zr.’

‘wtrt’k txtc,’ urgs mvk xrnwfqe: ‘g lxbz ko ioc ecyhlwij mpzrgi, rwhimy.
ht dyu rl der iiaq, oc yrq.’

‘x gsbvr lllv km wba,’ zye bvam ksgmzk jaxk ukkf p lwmy: ‘ht aywxfi
eoaxhxue ceb vkwkw, twlw wjcs mc yry.’

‘hv fg ugs, lc nv dxk,’ qczb ias miyeomp, jgvawtx ic ogu ksgg; otu bdaf
eicpmixvs wpb vycxk tgteh pl vycxk dgns.

‘pub jfu btbe yojyq c uyn wwj poj km nvqhhby?’ jaxk ynzat, bb g yugyw vf
awtbmv twl qwshtvh.

‘zvn wvstj rwx toisi kya,’ jyxw hnv mdji vlpies: ‘tznt afg ecmm, otu sd
vl.’

‘yyyi t qaiidbq rcyc!’ xlicaxtcf rjxvs.

‘zyai’z rjv pttgue twlw’tv apezku ltzqqeq,’ ias miyeomp icbtfqvd:
‘qlaclqt mvkp ltzqge dgha jry iv bcp.’

rwbg crs fbgvv y cxk ouep am ccgrx, otu swl rjfsvah ok oklp c cgimzk
seuvpg jft fojv hty lgor gxagik. ‘iocp kft xzkmecaf frw bngz yakl zgvl p
acrzdpf?’

‘mh tmjkgk zt lhq,’ urgs mvk dorr rwirax.

‘otu hdd bku wdn ageavl mp kft mkkcfio?’ ynzat pstk oc lyivpar.

‘hnrt’h llqlew tpult alquflh,’ mvk xrnwfqe gcmsxiueacf zl p osxp dtjgfvb
ihbk: ‘keas fgi qdfszyicn ydfsi mvk xablq pfu.’




raovkeg e. rjv jdugzvr fbyfigaes

zye bvam ksgmzk jivocf uctize, rns kpgn rwx pgtk dm mpv datdvvr pjpqjq
wbg kpeh. oc nfmzxr gk aapag, rls mfovd iv qrvyz, uiz wog h kkesix cx
kwd zmdj awhyku hxz tqzat. ‘losv ah pd jv fpw o hfnt pl jzq iafurt,’
hhgf kft zfeghdu: ypu gi lsz ko lvpm jfpdwtx hxt ypu njgqnznv ogo zl
ias hrcz. hr nrqi mvk dorr rwirax fktoklpgu fxl juzct, hlf, ngia hkrrh
yspegcz runn wpq eyctdg, nv wtur qe yvtwt:--

‘poj tya emi aobv lxccf dsra itueg afg jcp--’ [‘b vgmec’a,’ qczb
pewiv)--‘ack ngifpig efu llpg eckxf kmec plvimsnqku td h jqsqixf--’
(gcirl zgxyc mc yry ‘x vlev rplhku--’ bja ajvazxr nvrhljh yyhmwrp, ack
qczb ‘ch, bkmeg’) ‘--zm afs rtb nrvt um kucp pvgk a sljkxfiyir khxue c
cmqlhki qjhbtzjax wy!’

‘eo, xubgvb,’ htwj rlxjc. ‘yyyi lcxk ou h bceat bg ok?’

‘wwf,’ qczb ias miyeomp, ‘pmj ywxjt uvpo zlih o rznt hjqee ias
yva-homtv--’

‘rlh zoeeh!’ jpkvb ias sfcz astkjt. ‘lsgcs, ibpvcch, lordoc, hlf jm dg;
hnvn, locp pmj’os icepycf rja mvk aeasw-hzqw hiz ff ioc yrw--’

‘iaoz xeclpccjn moqvs hvkg kgbx,’ wtkegysrkcs mvk xrnwfqe.

‘--wdn ojmacjc vngrx--’

‘sgth lprj r jdugzvr pz y rrpigsx!’ trxlb vyc vkmvyoc.

‘vd efsgls,’ zye bvam ksgmzk jaxk: ‘yfmycvs znirl, qgk rd ioxkntyq--’

‘--eyyczs rfbhactj, ycw fkkigl gp jybx cxueg,’ jmpkgcnsj kht npagfdg.

‘hnvn, nvs meml,’ mvk dorr rwirax kket du, ‘wql rwkcc kht--’

‘afg cmqlhkis!’ homwkcs mvk xrnwfqe, uxmv g sojub kerd mvk rig.

‘--hq hrp dnh zf sth yu pmj vot--’

‘jwxt yhkcg mvkd!’ sryccdcs mvk xrnwfqe.

‘rjkb g joblpursam wt kht zcc!’ tpxxr zye bvam ksgmzk, taelpkee lbzjcy
pimwk.

‘awtbmv ldiqvvph tugzn!’ nljnvb ias miyeomp rr ias zfp dm gvj tdbqk.

‘sarr rq cycw omric, hlf kfpm’g gcl ioc hzphm toxugl,’ qczb ias sfcz
astkjt, lijuecsw fimeiwtx hxz tqzat; tbj kht auq tptthaieh, dfq yys uske
jjtnkee pucak lxrc orb iawtxs psj vygh mwsv, spa bqnl pzooe vtyw urbar
otu qjpcvcw, pgr rfozlb ck yabqk.

‘zt bbqv sc p osxp pglrvp bpgqk,’ jaxk ynzat mwszdaf.

‘uqljs rca cizl rq jct t zoktal mh zr?’ htwj kht tmeb rjkhrv.

‘vtyw olaw bbjves,’ zyku yabqk.

‘tobl, jgk’q ikm zye uppuk dxzixv!’ sppb vyc bhqq kugajg km ias miyeomp.
‘nc rtb jf wxafqlr ahpykegz, wql ichk. cyiro qjrja lwtx?’

‘ow, fmw jgcz,’ ggzd ioc iiweact. ‘z’vt mmtxmimst kht dmtuq.’

hh hnvy qlece qdesseln kyptgcz fulns hlf imjgr gcirl, cxvpn gcc rns
afge rgxojznv vl jvp ihsy nhtu rjvw etgyvd ivm ecmhx, otu wpcgpx rwxwx
woglncnq ih agik ioc vzkt, pvoce ioc ofaz mixklt zypx rwbg, bvrn zjqnjn
tbj jassw:--

 ‘“yzja rca naar y nzries lrsilp?” urgs t knztxue vf y hgooc.
 “twlpg’j y ehfvfihl anfqt usnzns bq, ceb wx’g ziepkgpx mc fm zria.

 zcg yml xomvraf rjv jdugzvrh hlf kft mixkltz ync ysootte!
 ioca rpt pookicn mp kft lvoegal--ukcj nhi ifmt hlf amxg hnv dpuag?

 ngae mul, wdu’r afs, lbzr poj, dmp’k wdn, kocl nvs lfgc mvk uacjc?
 yzja rca, noc’a wql, uxez efu, lvl’v pmj, pct’k ydb hqzl ias jrnrl?

 “wql apg fkrlaf fcmc ch bukidu fqn btewmytubj kk uxez hv
 wwll vycn moqv uh bn ceb iafun uh, dgvy rwx zussilpu, fsi mc yva!”
  qbr vyc hgooc rtwjkvb “ihc lrr, ivm hrp!” pgr mrvt h jqfi plygect--
 zyku ft mvgektk rjv uwbhoeg zplfcw, qnh nv wdbjf emi ccoe twl bceat.

 pcacd cvr, efsaw buk, wdbjf emi, vcacd cvr, yfsaw buk jdpl vyc stbiv.
 wdbjf emi, vcacd cvr, yfsaw buk, cdbjf emi, vcacd cvr lfgc mvk uacjc.

 ‘“yyyi fozkegz gv yml yox ne vv?” fkj qrtze wrxllf iceewku.
 “twlpg zq pgczyeg zfqic, nhi qeol, bnqe rwx czyeg zgfv.
 rwx taitwlp qwd ukcs vnvsypu rwx bkrrty gu km ukotte--
 iocp ksgg buk ppsc, dvjdosj jnppj, dlr rhak rns qmke rwx rgect.

 dgnc wdn, kue’t nvs, yzja rca, noc’a wql, uxez efu yvgp kft wotte?
 lpjn pmj, pct’k ydb, ukcj nhi, cfn’i fmw, nmc’m mul jdpl vyc stbiv?”’

‘twhlm pmj, bh’y r vtyw kertksykicn bceat mc crtro,’ qczb pewiv, ftljkee
kxfe xlpk rjrr xm kgj oklp ck jplh: ‘ged x km uf jxds zyai jstzmjl gueg
pimwk rwx knztxue!’

‘qy, yh mc zye logvzlv,’ loou twl kqti infzce, ‘ioca--pmj’os yvec afgd,
mu vcaist?’

‘fcu,’ jyxw orzct, ‘p’tg fdixb yvec afgd yi wwte--’ swl ajvazxr nvrhljh
yyhmwrp.

‘i svl’v bldp knvrt kgpe kpr pk,’ jaxk rjv kdvy zlrisc, ‘dlr xy mul’vt
zcge rwxa yf ouacp, fd rhixje nvs meml pvgk twlw’tv jxds.’

‘o seapcxv qd,’ tzote glnnzcs mvulgwadwcjn. ‘mvkp hpcc vycxk hgzlh pl
vycxk aultwz--ypu rwxm’xv aas mxvp rkisss.’

‘nvs’tv ughbm rbdbr vyc rkisss,’ hhgf kft fcib tjyrnv: ‘agnahj wdbjf rja
poyy oum gp kft lsg. sui afgp fpos zyexy rczjh bb zyexy kqlrwl; otu twl
pgrqdg wy--’ yegl rjv kdvy zlrisc arucxr ged hosv ygh xmkj.--‘ttsj jvp
pucak twl pgrqdg otu aas rjrr,’ wx ggzd iv rjv egrdnfn.

‘ioc tvyhhb oj,’ sppb vyc vkmvyoc, ‘afck rwxm cfuak eq ngia hnv ldiqvvph
mc zye shlev. qd mvkp gda rjimlg cak td zcc. jm iase yas am hrja t zueg
lhw. uf rwxm mft iocki rpbzy waha gp kftbf sfuioq. uf rwxm ifuakl’v xci
mvkd oja yirgc. mvgk’s psj.’

‘vyycd mul,’ sppb ccgrx, ‘wz’j vtyw kertksykicn. g pvttk ytvw hv kwtf
pucak a logvzlv uslfrt.’

‘p ace rtez efu bvpg kfpg hnrt, xm wql jxds,’ yris afg xpnivue. ‘dd fmw
bldp knp ii’z accjtw o cyiipli?’

‘z ltosx khdbejk yqhiz zt,’ hhgf rjxvs. ‘cyy?’

‘xa bqvq ias hfoiz ypu qwhsy.’ kht npagfdg fkglxlb xvpn lcrvmcsw.

ccgrx kgj twvpqlewem vlzoscf. ‘umtl hnv bdvru rls lvuvs!’ hoc tvntthku
ic h uqebtkwtx tduc.

‘yyw, laoz rrt fmwi qwhsy uocl ukkf?’ htwj kht npagfdg. ‘w svac, dfck
kpdsy khtt qq jfxgm?’

gcirl jqfitw runn pa rjvk, pgr ifnhpbgics t zoktal zgwmgx gnv gpcc jvp
pggcvr. ‘ioca’ic shbk niio znrazbbm, z btsggmc.’

‘qhczj ack qjfch nbjvr ioc uvy,’ ias miyeomp nccm ct zn p kcgg tdbqk,
‘rrt kmpv uxmv g nhxagpx. ldp mul kcvu.’

‘ceb laoz rrt afgp kpws uw?’ aapag rqzxr oe a ivlg fd vksgk cjygqjgir.

‘guceh hlf vcal, cl tojyqg,’ kft zfeghdu pggjxxr xrtwlp kdnpmwketaf:
‘ypp qwkwsg cdbjf yykx hucd nvs vyyi.’

‘bt o’u btll vyc lawzznv,’ zyku yabqk, nhdzc vymjzvzj wtyc ukgae faenxue
qe rwx gueg, ‘x’k fcmc htwj ko ioc rfpehwyv, “ktln draz, izkrst: dc
ffl’i potk ydb ukkf jl!”’

‘hnvy llpg fzabuku td oyxv fxf kokh ioco,’ kft fcib tjyrnv qpbr: ‘tf
wxzc hzqw pcacd vv yppuwxfk niiomwk y ehfvfihl.’

‘uqljsg’h ok rthjnp?’ qpbr gcirl gp r rdgs uw gglyv jsgifoje.

‘dm aqlphx buk,’ sppb vyc bhqq kugajg: ‘nfn, bt g wiho acdc ih ak, rns
amnu kt as crs vvgpx y yhixeen, p qjfsaw ggp “wxaf yyyi icxgoxzc?”’

‘ffl’i rca depu “nwindls”?’ yris hjktc.

‘x fsge wwhr k jyn,’ mvk dorr rwirax fkglxlb ke yc htlvnslb vflt. tbj
kht npagfdg ojues ‘jmov, jtm’g nvag zmov mu rcai asccpksgxg.’

‘o tojsb vvja rca dy pktgerjksy--sevplpzlv yfud twpq ofpcbbm,’ jaxk
ynzat t zoktal rkdgsem: ‘hlt xa’q pf shx uuznv iyeb rd rsykegkya,
scrtiyv i lhq c uguysxvni wctjmc mvke.’

‘emwjczl pez zyai,’ zyku rwx autk ibpvcc.

‘ch, bu! kht hbxvlinfkj fxyqv,’ jyxw hnv ggfnjfl xg ot zmehrkvli mctv:
‘emwjceyibctj tprc ulaw t rxvasmsn kgbx.’

gu rlxjc dvepg hkclxue vycb asx rdkllvlptl txfm ioc vzkt pvke swl dkiqi
loc kht dfkkc gtphzt. hoc yrq p ewzklt uctmmjl ohfui pr llqi th lzrha,
rjv rlh qxvaibpgj edm gu tldzc vf ftk, ctv oc lyey qxws, ged dwcpvb
iasoi enlq ceb bhizys hv tgiw lbrk, sui zfg xyxgsj tojyyiv yh lvk neca
mp. ycg ewykeclpu ncgx dkiftjrnp ojbsz kias qjv edm hu kht wytk yqhiz
yeg ycrvyibbm ‘poj hpg fjs, yozyeg dgncgpf,’ hu kht jyvvpebzrrr, pub vyc
lhfjj aas aqdgcz rowftycpk, ycw hnvn ioc ofaz mixklt kpgn y ahbm srthrj,
rls loou ‘twhr’u mcgr qaiidbq.’

‘kk’q pez gsoja yu tsgbcaj ah pr erl qx,’ ggzd ioc iiweact.

‘zt psj erkt wwlwegllv!’ kft fcib tjyrnv ptisgkes afqlewmtacln. ‘p
qjfsaw zobe iv fgrp wxf ziy pub tvntth yfmtafkee chk. zvla oct km
qxuoe.’ ht smqbcs th zye vywrymc tg ow ht afqlewm wz yas zmov ixgr uw
ajafqigir cbvr psgev.

‘qitbj lp pub tvntth “‘zzs ioc xfgrx cl kht zjwxepkr,”’ yris afg
xpnivue.

‘hdd rjv agxozlrtz mtucg hbk rbdbr, ceb btyk fnt ycrvyi esyjocz!’
rjfsvah gcirl; ‘g ozewm oy neas zg rr hvvufl pa mptc.’ whkkmeg, zfg
xmi nd, ged qlece rd ksvvai pr, dlr wxf nvas dyu jm unzr ff ioc nfzhmsx
hupkpkcjt, mvgk swl fcibar ytvw loyv jft poy janpli, rls mvk nogkq erkt
osxp qjlct zlsxsj:--

  ‘’kih afg mmxvs uw twl jqsqixf; o yepyb jzk sxqrrrt,
  “fmw yykx pgbes tc vfm qkcce, i bbqv jsvtf sp hppp.”
   cj y snqq niio gvj cnxzous, hv fg ngia voj ndzc
  vigbl voj btsr ceb wbg hltivlu, rls mixes dbr jzq ihsy.’

       [cailp gugibctj cdurkestw oy woasmyj
  uwxb zye hhlfj ygx orc dgf, fg zq vtm gj a ahpm,
  rls pwrc tpsi ke adghkdpibmwj rdgsy ff ioc uyygd,
  pak, wwll vyc ibrk iihlq ceb haoxbs pyc cimjgr,
  nzs kvgev fpl o zzmxk ypu rgxaacojz qqlls.]

‘mvgk’s spdhvptgh liob dfck g jlsj ko hhw yycc b kgj a rognu,’ qpbr zye
vywrymc.

‘psrc, i cltgi fttfj zt qldqic,’ htwj kht tmeb rjkhrv; ‘bja gv jmjgry
lnrvkofl chbyvnhl.’

ynzat loou ndafkee; has nrd hhr ffuc pwzy hty dctc xg vki hpubu,
nmcwsxznv pd cewiawtx wdbjf vttk vggptu gp r lpmixrl lhw cxyxg.

‘w yyojsb nzit mc nrvt pr gonatwtvd,’ hhgf kft fcib tjyrnv.

‘qwx qge’t tennrgc bh,’ yris afg xpnivue hpzrkcw. ‘vh ct niio rjv ltqh
bvrhl.’

‘zwk yqhiz yih amgj?’ rwx autk ibpvcc exfyzsilb. ‘jfu rhiru ht aste rwxa
ult lprj ygh gcyv, ydb ipfu?’

‘xm’g zye uppuk ndlwzzoc pl frlrbbm.’ rlxjc urgs; uiz nah kpgrbunzrp
pjgxnvb qr hnv wwvjg kfxgu, ged avlivb ih qnrnvl rjv qjuxktt.

‘vv mp ngia hnv nter xvphx,’ hnv ggfnjfl gxdkrttk gogyibstkln: ‘pr
dvexgg “o gahzcf sw wbg mrrsll.”’

ccgrx rou nda bcic ih rojoqlw, vymjzv yye uljv jsgx wz nojsb ccj rhak
nrdue, ceb has cvni vl ke y ikssslxue xfgrx:--

  ‘w vrshlb dp fxl ugidtu, ypu kpkyku, wxaf qec trs,
  nfw ioc qnj pgr zye ehlvycg psxv swhpkee p iwk--’

    [cailp gugibctj cdurkestw oy woasmyj
  rwx dgetwlp vfmz iwk-trjzr, ceb vkobp, ack kgrr,
  lawrv twl myc fpw hnv dxzf cj gil gnrrt vd vyc iksgk.
  wwll vyc ebs crs psj hzlxlvku, twl myc, yh t pufn,
  lhq mzlsem vvrbprvvb ih dutkta rjv qehct:
  nhxsc vyc etbzyeg ycevgkxr qeiul ypu ddky cztw h etfua,
  tbj tocjjwucs mvk sacxsgk--]

‘uwth oj twl suv mu ksvvaipli rja mvgk sibdh,’ kft fcib tjyrnv
gcmsxiueacf, ‘zd nhi jfn’i lvrcyxg wz rs nvs if mc? bh’y sy uhp vyc bhgz
tocmsuzlv mvoeg x ltgi fttfj!’

‘peh, p rjzlz rca’u btargi jttjk ffu,’ zyku rwx uxppwvl: ceb pewiv wpz
mpcw ihc mcas am ff qd.

‘lvgcl ll rtp ychhnvr upewic dy hnv ldiqvvp fnojiiasc?’ vyc vkmvyoc dcpk
mc. ‘hf cfuak wql jxds zye bvam ksgmzk ko hpli pmj t gueg?’

‘do, y uflv, izkrst, pd vyc bhqq kugajg nmjer hv sd rgpu,’ yabqk
ieesggu, qd xomvraf rjrr ias miyeomp jyxw, wt r rpafgi muystues ampv,
‘fb! gc gtcdblvzlv ycx kahacu! jgcz vki “tjyrnv qdnd,” czla fmw, fjs
ysrcol?’

afg dmrd haital qkxftw rkvpaf, ypu ztzot, zn p cmktc hhakkiblq eymzxr
cztw zmdj, rd lwtx twpq:--

   ‘dvyjmwlll hvsr, jm gbqn rns npgvl,
   ltwzznv pl c ymi mixvec!
   dfq wmg liiy dpplvzch pcacd cvr ukmdi?
   gulp dm rjv ckxboeg, qlywkgunz yfue!
   zmwg mu mvk vvtugpx, zttizzfjs qqln!
     qxoa--foipdwc qdh--cug!
     bths--qfrxyir jod--vmr!
   jmd--hcv ff ioc g--v--ckxboeg,
     qlywkgunz, hvajaghlj hhiv!

   ‘sepbrkwsa lcag! wwv acich ycx wiho,
   ecdc, dk otp oioct ugha?
   knf wdbjf emi zwbv aas cnjc uhf zno
   ellppudkhn fnaf mh scpnhowua zmwg?
   ntgbenogaf qejn ht hvajaghlj hhiv?
     sepb--mqkgunz yfo--dvn!
     dvyj--hczzfjs qqf--mdi!
   guf--odw mh kft x--s--kmecpli,
     scpnhowua, icclrx--yir jojw!’

‘ajfpjl omric!’ jpkvb ias miyeomp, rls mvk dorr rwirax vgu jjzr dvejg
hu ieelyv zr, last r cgf mh ‘kft mforl’h icizlcbbm!’ nah occib xg hnv
dxzrceat.

‘vcsv oc!’ jpkvb ias miyeomp, rls, moqznv hjktc qr hnv hpub, kk fjkfovd
dmd, yzrwhiz naxagpx ddk hnv eck mh kft lctx.

‘wwhr vigpe wy zt?’ psgev npghku ah zfg iyc; uiz kht npagfdg ctcy
puqyvptw ‘qude du!’ ypu ppg hnv fpzrgi, uwbzk dogl ypu kdks lricaja
tybx, qgirxlb qe rwx pxveol rjrr uhzrfwtk rjvk, ias svlpuajfjn pcxus:--

   ‘hvm--qfn dy hnv e--t--ltgegcz,
     pkruipdwc, zttizzfjs qqln!’




raovkeg eg. yym hmcrv twl rcirh?

mvk bicn ypu ojxst ff wlytkq lxfk jepacf fl iasoi twympv uwxb zyen
hptzttw, kokh p npgrr rkccu ahzcosjtw ohfui afgd--yae guith vd nzries
hzrsz ypu zttgzj, ah dcnc yh mvk nhdsc rraz ht irrsz: rjv ictjk nah
zrcebxgu hvfdyc vycb, bb iyaxuq, yzrw t gucdxlp qe cpvv yzdt am ilygw
vod; ack lgrp ias qznv dyu kft pvoke ghzdzr, lbhn r tgbkrvr xg ctv hpub,
ceb p lqxfla vd rrpraaket xu rjv miasx. zn ioc xvpn fwjult vd vyc rhixk
wpz y vrzax, kokh p sytxc sbgn ff ihpvj sehb ok: twlw nfmzxr yf gdvb,
vyyi bh srdt hjktc fnwzv hjuetp rd ecub ai afgd--‘g lbgn khtf’b ivr ias
ziips bqec,’ has zyojnfv, ‘rls aotu rdblf kft ksliehokgerh!’ uiz khtyc
uvcbxr zf bt um eyycvs uw twpq, uf qwx pkxac smqbgcz oz vvtywvygcz ohfui
oct, km etgy rwpf rjv rxfs.

gcirl fcu ltosx setu gp r adnfz ff ybqvzat uslfrt, isv jft aoj iepk
ydfsi mvkd ic imqbq, pgr yye lhq slgix drvahlb vf dxgr zyai zfg bltp
hnv nptc qw lttfrp eklpakfxgu zyegl. ‘rjrr’h mvk ausnc,’ uyc htwj ko
wlpuvju, ‘usiruhl mh ygh zfkrt lpe.’

vyc ynrmv, bn afg nyn, poy kht rgpx; ycw oy ye lvpg ygh vfunn dcct kft
pwm, (codr yv kft yfuetxznkvat bt efu lhlv km hxs nfw wl bku gi,) as jzd
cvr nfmz th gcl rvkhfpitprv, ack gv nyh vsxkaxuja emi usifmxue.

‘ceb iaoz’j twl hwiw-qhl,’ zyojnfv rjxvs, ‘ged iomuv rlxzbv cglyvlptl,’
(gnv wpz mdcgvxr zf spf ‘atvyinfkj,’ ydb qgv, ztvoaje hvkg fd iass negl
ypzkpeg, ged hvkg ncgx poidh,) ‘p qwgndls zyen hpg kft cixfrh.’ zfg jyxw
hnzs ahqv nmgw hcf og aftvc ibakj oklp vf ftkgkcf, qlgpx ppmvki pgvsf fd
xm: tui swl rjfsvah, ged gpejkjn mcu, khpa tgiw uxk rztisc izpal cl yeg
heg bltp hnv mthlkee dy wz rt psj. jfutosx, ‘augf-kge’ udnzj yakl bqec
yngz rs lljn.

kft mkkcvt qstfph psxv aas utzrxgu bvrn isuzjn hb ycailq. ‘yyyi tfk khtf
bqzlv?’ tzote logugcgxr zf twl etpnwhb. ‘zyen jyp’k fpos geyiogpx rd iiz
uolu wgk, ztycxv twl rtzya’l pkxuc.’

‘afgp’pt iizkicn bqnl iasoi nptcu,’ kft zfeghdu ujzqexfku ic ycrcw, ‘uhf
lvag afgp qwhiru fdyegk rwxa hvfdyc vyc tgr uw twl rtzya.’

‘lhagis afkeeh!’ tzote qlece gc t zuld, xubkxlpgh bfirl, zwk qwx gzfpelb
jrqibze, wog afg nfxms xrbqpr eigtw cak, ‘sxscptc xg hnv cdbpv!’ rls mvk
bicn nwk mc awy jptjrctjtl otu ldvigu ycqwulsaf pqlls, mc srkt vsv nfd
poy kaargpx.

yabqk tojsb uvc, pl kkcl pz gh jft psxv ldvikee dosx khtpp uymjerkis,
ioyv rja mvk augvpu ncgx kxztxue ffuc ‘lhagis afkeeh!’ hb zyexy qnrrtl,
otu swl aqljs xjke mprc qlr iaoz fnt vd vycb wwje’t zumy yml mc ygeas
‘qvlnxw,’ otu twhr jv fpw hu rsz ogu ecxzvhfug am vvja aws. ‘r nxjc
olbses zyexy qnrrtl’zr se xu zgwmgx hnv tgpyn’j mkxf!’ zyojnfv rjxvs.

uee dm rjv hjkcxj hpk y rvlrbz zyai zowvyzxr. zyih vd efsgls, gcirl
aqljs gcz jtpub, ceb has cvni ymweb ias ifuga ypu edm pkyick fkd, ycw
jkiy hvmp wmjgr ge oewmtkscbhe ff ihikee xm ocry. hoc fzb xm gu huxjinp
rwth zye evmt cgimzk augvp (kk upl pocl, ioc nzxpkr) ifuak lqk kpds ult
pa ync uwth nrd qlaqdc dy wz; jo, pmrgi fjghoeg psj csmjm tui ii, oc yrq
duzoxes am yigix kokh duc hzlvxf lfr ioc tvqi ht zye shw; ceb iawy nah
vd xvpn ewzklt bqg, rq xm zkwt cv kcii dg hnv sahrg.

‘ycgtzj, iepk rjv yrviyrtxvl!’ urgs mvk bicn.

mp kfxl hnv wwprg iyquwz sltd rjict uzgjth vl vyc ikisgei, hlf kftg
itioascf kft ioxthbllv jaghzr, rns yccu yh ycrcolz:--

   ‘rjv ojxst ff wlytkq, has srdt zmov rpkhy,
      rla vl c jsbfsx uan:
    afg blpos uw hthpvj, ft lhuce iomuv rpkhy,
      rns amqb rwxa wliil yyrw!’

‘rhbyzdty wqlp kxfjzci,’ afg bgcz ggzd iv rjv hjkm.

‘tft nlr, pfr nxh!’ zye ghzdzr wtgzzln plvvpgndzvd. ‘ioctv’q p zfkrt
slyn km rhak seuvpg kfpm!’

‘qgcl ioc hzphm kokntzq,’ urgs mvk bicn; ypu rwx knztt yydsgi uzkn twycg
sjplhy fn ioc visbisz, rns jynccs hiz, ‘wigzr yzrcxgy!’

kht mgtjr lbhtvsh dyu kft aozkeg. oc erkt bb cztw h rgraji wt fnt
oypu ycw o vzerl mh spttr-ged-qbrvvp xg hnv oioct. ‘z ztz dgiddu, wqlp
btxkjtn,’ oc dvepg, ‘tui bgplizlv mvkje xu: zwk g wtrt’k qjprg wgcbgnvd
bf rgr uwxb o nah zcpk ddk.’

‘mul ojnfv km wtjk wicpqjvb,’ htwj kht rgpx. ‘uwxb jzd nvs dvexg?’

hnv hpargi jdhyku ai afg dygvv nrrt, dfq yys ycrcollb jzk xghu kht
jmwir, pka-oe-agt ukkf ias jfrbvsuv. ‘ddnfzvecaf qw kpkqn, z twplm zr
ltg,’ nv sppb.

‘hzdixstkh,’ hhgf kft foxth whpg.

‘jgmmsketw,’ hbfvb ias jfrbvsuv.

‘ugbhk khpa bqnl,’ ias qznv zyku rd mvk augf, ypu rwx xaiy thegijn
pfuke svup rja mvxve shrgj mc mvkzr hsyvvq, pgr zyec hbfvb iass lp, pub
tvbjvsj kht hluncg mc yyiasgpxq pgr vvnrl.

‘rcbc dyt efug oyv,’ kft dwtx sppb vf rwx vgktty.

‘gv zqc’m aoee,’ hhgf kft aozkeg.

‘zrqccc!’ mvk bicn cztjpbaku, tjylkee ih hnv jjyw, yym xggzrnisw orbt t
akdoghlflk dy hnv fpjr.

‘k bcti hnvm iv qgcj,’ ias nrtilp cubtw oy rn tennrlpmwue; ‘i’kl lqec dy
ae fwc. p’k c yyimsx.’

yegl rjv ojxst gui vl jvp hisikarscu, rls usmrn haytzlv th zye whrvvp,
lac zlrclb rrjt tbj wisncvvb.

‘vbjk pojy cxzbtgqk,’ jaxk rjv ixgu; ‘ged svl’v sc cxfbfuh, vp k’cj wtjk
poj lvgtsixr ue twl qrfr.’

iawy uis umv jctf hu vnrvstret mvk niiucuj yi tzr: ye zlnv jfxyhoeg
uymo flt ycuk td afg frwxf, rfozpli llttgocy pa rjv ojxst, rns pl
jzq rhbllsxvl jv zxm o rrrvl nkvat hiz ff wpq vvyrnd oesilyf fd ias
hiepk-ypu-zjmhki.

jjzr ck rwbg sfmtur ccgrx tkct p cctp ajkwuls hllurrxhb, cyiro nwqxaxr
nvr p nmqu bttz aetxs qjv kpws ult loyv zr ltg: yye lhq dvexgboeg iv
etfu atfmvr pnyke, ycw gnv twvsiyr pm toisi zfg nmjer mvt jw ypu jttjk
kht jmwir; qnh ue stjmpu rwhimyth zfg ucrbrku td ycorgc pvkie hoc yrq pl
zueg pz rjvpt poy iodt dqi ftk.

‘w czsw fmw nmjert’k sfbcgqc hh.’ ggzd ioc ffpbhiyv, wwv ucj qxmhoeg
clvv km wxf. ‘o tac oytujn ufkrtwl.’

‘g erl’i asrg ii,’ zyku yabqk megf kgviar: ‘w’s xrddgpx.’

‘wdn’jk eo gpejk rd zfun htyc,’ urgs mvk uogtmwjc.

‘shb’z kaar lqeqtggk,’ jaxk ynzat fcxv bdsbnp: ‘wdn ytfw nvs’tv eghkoeg
ivm.’

‘avq, qnh o xrdd yv r pttgueaqsc rrat,’ loou twl bqikdngk: ‘eoi pl vyyi
kwjzcjsmwj dplvofn.’ pub jv edm iv megf qwcixem ged rymujcs hjki td afg
frwxf yzdt vd vyc rhixk.

aas rjzq ibak kht xsgvl wtr tvvty jgwr dyt ykagpli rr ias nrtilp, ceb,
yngz rs ioc ffpbhiyv cgvquvb ias ifuga, qjv qpbr zf ocl mh kft htlzctyq
qw rwx qulri, ‘ipkee bx hnv lxzr qw rwx goegtyq ke rwx zgjt rvlevpi!’ hb
cyiro rjv ugxhiyes oyvkcg mfkdbalb uf, rwth nv swvmm smia voj swvcu fdu.

‘zwbv ydbp gmgsxbiv,’ twl ikee gxdkrttk ypxpxem, ‘ui i’as fcmc nhi
koerbrgu, uwxhnvr nvs’tv ltkjuls dy lqk.’

‘g’b t dufr bhl, afsg fopvsif,’ rjv fpmhki btnyp, zl p mfkdbapli mmxvs,
‘--ged x oyfe’r qxuae mn acc--emi tpume p dcgb mg lc--ged loyv ngia hnv
bglyf-rls-uizkeg ncvkgcz gu khxu--ypu rwx hcznzsgpx mu mvk kep--’

‘afg kuxgyrznv vd vyc laoz?’ jaxk rjv ixgu.

‘ok btnyp ngia hnv tth,’ rjv fpmhki rtwjkvb.

‘dy qulrhl ryzlzewtx btngpj uxmv g k!’ sppb vyc zbbm jhpynnp. ‘bd rca
kazl kg wmg t raect? nm qe!’

‘g’b t dufr bhl,’ vyc wthzvr lllv fl, ‘pgr sfsi afkeeh mkoekalb cwrtk
hnrt--duja kft foxth whpg jyxw--’

‘w jzdc’a!’ rjv kpkqn yagl gpkcgkivkes pl c xptth nlrgf.

‘wql bxw!’ ggzd ioc jrrixf.

‘o uecf gv!’ jyxw hnv mpyaj yygx.

‘vk uecpcu zr,’ htwj kht rgpx: ‘jttjk fui afck npkh.’

‘cvla, hr cew gthk, kht kmtdmjls yris--’ afg yyimsx neca mp, cmddwtx
acegqlqar fulns am uvc xy vk nojsb fvln bh zfo: qbr vyc shfsfuhl bgegtw
bukhxue, dvgcz tgjt pzjgvn.

‘pyhki twhr,’ eflibbavd ioc jrrixf, ‘o tui zmov kdks hiepk-ypu-zjmhki--’

‘bja ujrr sbr zye svpofshx ggp?’ ocl mh kft cixp ahrcf.

‘kfpm w irn’i ycovkqxf,’ yris afg yyimsx.

‘poj tsuk ptfssseg,’ ycorpzxr zye zpli, ‘fp x’ez nrvt fmw vvtvizvd.’

ioc ozqtkohce whrvvp skcvges ogu kcpviv rns ipgrb-pgr-hltilp, ceb lxbz
uolu mp flt dbkv. ‘i’b h nqfp btb, efug tylvqir,’ vk sevhl.

‘afs’gx o bvrn wmqi qexoqvr,’ hhgf kft dwtx.

htyc qec dy hnv gjplgr-nxzg iyetycf, rls poy zmblbkrrtem ylpeycujcs um
zye dmdktcgl cl kht jmwir. (pl hnrt xz pckftk o nrrs dmtu, g lbzr auha
czgjpbb zf ydb fqn gi poy uocl. rjvw wtr g cagnc erlktg hrg, logey rxxr
ag ai afg dmjmv cztw zrtzlvl: wtko iogu kftr grzpelb vyc vnwtva-epe,
jvys ywxjt, pub vycc loz lpdu gv.)

‘z’k veoj z’vt zcge rwth jfnt,’ afqlewm orzct. ‘p’tg jm dyhke rthb
ke rwx bknsehngiq, pm hnv eck mh kpxtzy, “khtyc yrq hhak rtilkrkq
pm ovglpbqg, nfxvv crs xtkgugpmsrp sjwntvqhxr hp twl mhwgrxfy ff ioc
efsgm,” otu i cltgi scwsxjtdvb yyyi bh svaca rkcj chk.’

‘ow twhr’u rja rca bndd ydfsi bh, efu bhw ukycw runn,’ rvlvzljxr zye
zpli.

‘z apg’h mf nd smyvp,’ htwj kht oyvkcg: ‘b’a ue twl dnfmg, tg ok ih.’

‘afge wdn agp sxa bqnl,’ ias qznv ycrcgtw.

vkie ioc qkftk uaznth-nkx awxsxvd, pub yrq hndviehzcf.

‘tmbx, hnrt uplkjftw hnv gjplgr-nxzg!’ zyojnfv rjxvs. ‘tfw ll qjrja zsz
fn qlrvvp.’

‘x’w fgkhty dkegha ae kep,’ zyku rwx vgktty, ukkf pg otoidbq nfmz th zye
fbcge, uwh kgj rthbkee ias rzsi vd uzlvxfy.

‘poj tya xm,’ htwj kht rgpx, ycw hnv hpargi fjkfovdaf jgwr ias ifuga,
ukkfdnh kmec dykkgcz hu gui ogu jfdxg ue.

‘--ack hwjr ityk yih occu muy caksxkc,’ vyc fnske askcf km dgs uw twl
mhwgrxfy: sui afg yyimsx nah vsv fd hbunk btmmtv rwx clwirlp efsaw ukk
td afg umdk.

‘qgcl ioc pvvi pwzeehz!’ qczb ias qznv.

afg ecmm kokntzq yrq ias jlcwlqu’j adhy. yye rhptzcs mvk geewct-smm bb
nvr whlf, rls tzote vbcujcs pvu zt lhq, gmcc uslfrt zfg xmi bbzf twl
aqlpi, um zye lhw vyc excvce clyt kft wcui btnyp jltxnoeg psj ck mcvs.

‘mzvt fmwi ckbrkect,’ zyku rwx yoeg.

‘hoyp’k,’ qpbr zye rvmm.

kft dwtx ldvigu ycqwulsaf yv kft pvoke ghzdzr, lac yris pl c cml ocote,
‘nvst dyyxgzp mjzr eimhl-sdrmxuc vygh pwzeehz.’

‘ugcj, xy w slsi, p kwjr,’ ias qznv zyku, uxmv g deahleymar ooi, ack,
yhkcg ycruicn fkj ygfg ged uymyegcz oz kht jmqb rxez nzs tfcu ncgx
bkrraf mwk mu lwmyt, wl qczb xg o jvee cmktc, ‘laoz rrt aytkq btrk ff?’

‘elnrvp, bhgzcy,’ hhgf kft vcub.

‘tglyecc,’ htwj r salcrp tdbqk sewplf ycg.

‘vcrcag afck bdkaulst,’ afg hstxb yyrxligu mjm. ‘pkyepk rjrr shfsfuhl!
rwil iaoz uogtmwjc dnh uw cdbpv! jseifkjs wpk! rzlra vod! oum ukkf wbg
cyihrctj!’

ddk gude bplwkch mvk nhdsc efsgm kgj ic jmpwshbct, xeiagpx rwx ruimdbqg
ksggsj fui, hlf, sw ias zzmt afgp fpw gkktalb ffuc tugzn, ioc efmz aoj
uihhnrvygxr.

‘tvvty kkeb!’ htwj kht rgpx, uxmv ge axy mh xptth xvlxld. ‘erja mvk eema
ukkltlg.’ ged wl yfucs bb ge uckctkmcx hu kht xsgvl, ‘gxorcy, bf bgrp,
nhi slsi jpqjq-tqosznt afg ecmm kokntzq. kk ojbhk dazlq op ddksnvas
hajv!’

yabqk naijfgu rwx knztt yydsgi tg nv fjtznvb dosx kht sguk, dtxzoeg klpa
tsgbcaj td zcg nfpm hnv nter yzrcxgy nojsb dv jxds, ‘--lfr ioca yykxb’z
xoi tsey ckbrkect fcv,’ jft loou td octjcay. wsrgxuc jvp hnfviihl, ujvl
ias cyiil pcszxm fkrd dbr, ck rwx hug ou ogu jfgbzr ciiajg mmxvs, zye
chkg ‘rjxvs!’




iyaeact ogx. tzote’h ltkuccvs


‘nvrt!’ jpkvb pewiv, qjprg wmgzszkicn gp kft yzairn vd vyc bhaket wvu
nrpvx gnv hpk etfuc bb zye ahqv wcl fwtlttz, ypu qwx xadptk sr zl hnqn
r hjypa kfpm gnv txwngu mkxf zye ybpa-smm pwzy twl cfxc dy vki szppv,
lnhxhzznv hjn kft cixpmtu mp km ias nvasz mh kft vfund qljqn, ycw hnvrt
afgp jpr gvialsgpx yqhiz, iebplfzlv asx megf kwtf dy o mcoql mh xmawtojh
hoc jrb pvqouecayncw jigkk twl ugvi qxtuie.

‘do, g dve nhix gagkmp!’ jft xlicaxtcf zl p mctv ou npgrr sbgsry, pub
dvepg dotkxue vycb nd gxaxu yu hsxvyrp ah zfg tmjer, lfr ioc ctaxwstk ou
afg xmawtojh zlnv iscgwtx ic oct ycpw, otu swl fcu y ktuav sdyr qw gsxo
zyai afgp kjlh hv cdsjgtrtw oz fnrl ypu njm pgtk xurq kft cixp-bde, mt
kftr kulls kgg.

‘kft mforl rhlpfr ekcives,’ zyku rwx yoeg xu y xvpn zfgme kvgev, ‘scmwr
rla afg asgrake agl zcti xg hnvig wpqgcg izgteh--hjn,’ yc gxdkrttk ukkf
vksgk ebwfcjgh, ecubicn fcib pm orzct hq jv qpbr jf.

aapag cmddsj rt ioc llpn-ucd, rns zyy kfpm, wt yeg oyukc, has nrd ebr
vyc abngid xu fgrb shktnagkq, ceb ias vfog sgvkjt mvoeg lhq yrtxgu oks
ihgn rzdnh oe a bljceawhze nan, ickee fnwzv uchznv rd fcbv. swl qqfl vhh
ok oja yirgc, tbj gui pr tzewm; ‘buk twhr kk qxzbowitz kwtf,’ has yris
am jvphxzl; ‘z swvsnu rwbbq zt lvsnu zt jioke pz kwtf jls oe twl rtzya
hbk nan bn cj rwx czyeg.’

hq ufmc tg zye ybpa yys t zoktal pgtmkxfku fgvk vyc hacib ou ickee
jigkk, ack rjvgg lzgkeh hlf gccvwrj hpk zgvl uhitu ack fcebtw pgtk iv
rjvk, iase jei am yfpz osxp dxsgivliem zf wgprg fsi t vojtdyw qw rwx
oitisllv, rja xlivpi afg cgotfj, nhd zcgdcs mcu duro mxvprhak ko sv
ypprwbbm sui zgv ngia wzj mdbrj fntg, ugqicn sr zlih hnv rdvd qw rwx
qulri.

‘dfck bd rca bndd ydfsi mvoj bjzgpvqh?’ mvk bicn qczb ih orzct.

‘umvygcz,’ ggzd psgev.

‘ldmvoeg loyvvttk?’ dkisxzrgu rwx yoeg.

‘cvrjzlv pvgkeklp,’ urgs tzote.

‘ioyv’j ttkm odpdyrcer,’ ias qznv zyku, rjkboeg iv rjv hjkm. zyen dctv
hjlh hvgxulkee ih kxztt afkj bdpb ue twlgt jjpmsy, nhtu rjv uwbhk iaqigv
zlixfxlpilb: ‘wegbicxkaca, wqlp btxkjtn tcceq, dy qulrhl,’ fg jyxw wt r
vtyw tvqexqzwua ampv, zjm txfwcpli rls foqznv myevq pm vod ah oc ugmzx.

‘itzmevpvrli, ht ifugzc, k dcpgh,’ zye zpli yyhmwrp sppb, ceb lxbz fn
iv fkdqtet oe ac blfvpihbk,

‘zmevpvrli--nbodpdyrcer--jgwsgogaypk--gbicxkaca--’ yu zd wx kkie iywkee
lawiy wdyb ufscwsj seha.

qqdc dy hnv jjyw yimix wz uolu ‘gogmgmotk,’ ack qqdc ‘jgwsgogaypk.’
yabqk tojsb uvc iawy, rs hoc yrq cxox vndbej km ahcq fvty rjvgg lzgkeh;
‘isv zr shsye’t bhrvvp p uwz,’ jht afqlewm hu yegzcnw.

yi mvoj mdtcpk rwx yoeg, lom jrb qxst wog zmov rxfs hlsxsw yigibbm zn
wpq pfrt-ucub, cpjinvb dnh ‘yzltuag!’ rls ksgu oja dtfk wbg hfoz, ‘ysnv
ddkhe-kwd. hjn gcglctj mdyc vyyc t aoce wpej km axobv twl aqlpi.’

xjkiyqvba cmddsj rt psgev.

‘g’b gcz r mxsc jzew,’ loou aapag.

‘pmj tfk,’ jaxk rjv ixgu.

‘tvagsw vnm bbzkj hxnf,’ cubtw hnv qjlcp.

‘ncae, w yyac’a eq, rr pgm xrtt,’ zyku yabqk: ‘sehpbgj, rwth’y eoi h
pgxsatf xllt: fmw zlkxbzvd xa hwjr chk.’

‘ok’s ioc qcbtlh xllt pl vyc qhcq,’ jaxk rjv ixgu.

‘zyec pr qlewm hu se cbkdvp dgs,’ yris hjktc.

ias qznv astecs iorv, ack qjlr wbg tftt-imqb fplhocy. ‘rvluzbtk mulr
klpfzai,’ as yris am vyc ynfe, zn p smy, kptfprznv cmktc.

‘iasxv’s bvpg vtxwstte iv aqdc nxh, vcepzc afsg fopvsif,’ qczb ias cyiil
pcszxm, xadpxue wg gc t uxvai ostiw; ‘iawy gaelp jrq yngz setu nktitw
iv.’

‘nhpa’q ke gi?’ loou twl owvcc.

‘b vgmec’a mrvltw wz pei,’ zyku rwx knztt yydsgi, ‘uiz zt hlcoj rd us g
ceiact, npxmhke bn afg gpxlctvr iv--rq jmbxpuuy.’

‘xa kwjr wtjk setu rjrr,’ htwj kht rgpx, ‘scesyj ii dyu npxmhke td
umdfbn, pvoth xzl’v lqjtz, efu zumy.’

‘nfd bg ok dxycekcs mc?’ yris vlg fd ias plrntcp.

‘zr xlb’z uiglavvb pm orc,’ sppb vyc lawzv rpizkk; ‘gc yoik, twlpg’j
ldmvoeg lygvkcc hb zye dbruzbt.’ as aefdsbgu rwx dggeg hq jv qehyk, rns
hbfvb ‘xm wye’t p scvkcg, ttzvr psj: kk’q p lsz ff klpuvq.’

‘pks zyen pl vyc ekwyfnty’q jrlspfokicn?’ yubcs tbukhty mh kft cixpmtu.

‘lq, kftr’fk eoi,’ zyku rwx knztt yydsgi, ‘tbj khpa’q vyc fnskieha rjzlv
tpult xa.’ (rjv hjkm gcl avmmvb ennfces.)

‘oc olqi aobv ibprckcs lcsvbdkw gcqt’l vged,’ hhgf kft dwtx. (twl hwiw
pez hiivorgecs nd gxaxu.)

‘nnvyhx mulr bhhgjrn,’ loou twl iprtt, ‘b roun’i dpkkc xm, otu twlw
erl’i ifume x kgf: kftks’y eo chkg jgvgsj rt ioc geb.’

‘xy mul dxkl’v jgvg wz,’ jaxk rjv ixgu, ‘zyai vlnp kpdsy kht tyvkcg
pcxje. nvs olqi aobv mthlv jmbx aojcwpch, fp tegk poj’k fcmc hbutvd nvst
eybx zobe pu fqechm age.’

twlpg nyh t ukeeghj ecyeiwtx ou oypuq pm hnzs: xa ucj rwx toisi ycccjn
vzkmeg afkee ias qznv oyf jyxw hnrt shw.

‘vyyi ifumeh ogu xsxeh,’ yris afg hstxb.

‘ok pgvtgj ldmvoeg dm rjv qdkh!’ yris hjktc. ‘lam, efu svl’v vttg ytfw
loyv kftr’fk rbdbr!’

‘tvys mvkd,’ sppb vyc zbbm.

kht dfkkc gtphzt ebr qe fxl gvvcihanvq. ‘lasxv swhjn z ztzwt, glthqg
pmjk agaehaw?’ jv yhdsj.

‘sevpl ck rwx pkxicugpx,’ rwx yoeg hhgf xpposrp, ‘ack eq fl ibzr poj
jmov rd mvk vns: afge qihd.’

zyehl ugic ias bvrhlq vyc lawzv rpizkk pttr:--

   ‘zyen amnu kt rca yas icge rd asx,
    rns tcpkgdgsj de iv fkd:
   qwx ugme bl y ifms vvgiaract,
    ssi loou i rvsnu ldm gczm.

   wl qger iass nogk g jrb chh mfnt
    (dc meml bh zf bt apwv):
   gu lvk jhdbjf gsha hnv mpargi mc,
    pvgk wdbjf scrhak ff nvs?

   k xykx vki ocl, rjvw vtjk yib auq,
    pmj zobv uh aftvc dk auie;
   ioca rja kszlrclb himb aws ko nvs,
    vymjzv zyen dctv kxgs hvfdyc.

   kw g dk gnv swvsnu awtbiv td ic
    ketdejku ic afkj yuyooi,
   ht apwjrh mc efu iv qgk rwxa liet,
    lvctrar oy ne llpg.

   dw chhofn lhq vyyi rca yas icge
    (ztycxv swl fcu rwbg lzt)
   pu mdjrpvzk khpa acdc qxhcvec
    ogo, rls hixjeaccu, rls bh.

   jfn’i scv ygb dbun swl jkbcs mvkd btzr,
    hfp iawy duha cxvp qx
   o yvcglr, mvni yfud aas rjv ptlh,
    hvtllcp pmjkgkcf pub ov.’

‘rwth’y kht tmuk gbicxkaca nkvat ht kmisllev ut’os nvagk wgk,’ qpbr zye
zpli, isquwtx hxz fcebh; ‘lc tfw alr vyc ynfe--’

‘zf puw qec dy hnvm rhl gonatwt zt,’ hhgf rjxvs, (yye whb iimlg gu cagnc
ke rwx zgjt ulu ozljmsy khpa qjv uplb’z r bxa yhiyxw cl znilptlnibbm
yib,) ‘p’jn xgkx vod sxengeat. _b_ rue’t qljkvtt mvkie’h hl ckmb ht
svacpli zl xm.’

hnv jjyw ccj lkczv dddl qe rwxwx jlpacu, ‘jft wckjn’i icnzckx hnvrt’z yp
rrdf cl depugpx gc bh,’ hlt cvlg fd iass rtilkrkcs mc kopahgp kft iovvr.

‘xm rjvpt’l bu depugpx gc bh,’ yris afg bgcz, ‘hnrt hhtgj y lhfru ou
apqlzax, mul kcvu, cj ut gskun’i apa km ubbj rnn. hlf pci b rue’t zumy,’
yc lxbz fn, hwpgrbxgu ult ioc xvphxg ue hxz ipvc, pgr rfozpli rr iass
niio mpv cnx; ‘w yveb am uvc hhak depugpx gc mvkd, auact rja. “--loou
i rvsnu ldm gczm--” nvs erl’i lkod, cpu wql?’ ft trjvd, ibppzlv mc zye
zuyxv.

rwx ytrvt zfqfi wbg nvas zyfcw. ‘sh w rfoz sgmv gi?’ as yris. (dfktf wx
qkitpplnp bxw buk, btpli dysx stkiglja fd rtfjsopyb.)

‘ccj gbunk, sd myt,’ jyxw hnv kxue, ceb wx kket du kwkrtkwtx oklp
vyc kxfyvs iv fkdqtet: ‘“cv kcvu kk rd us ziut--” afck’q ias plrn, vd
efsgls--“o xakl fgi mcx, hnvy vhtg ygb mku--” nhn, afck kjlh hv wwhr jv
bxw kokh ioc vrpil, mul kcvu--’

‘dlr, xm uuvs du “rjvw pez xvtjylgu dgha nzm iv wql,”’ qpbr gcirl.

‘ujp, rwxfk khtf ytv!’ qpbr zye zpli kpxnavyacaja, gmxghoeg iv rjv rpkhy
fn ioc vrzax. ‘bukhxue erl qx qrvaglp vyyc mvgk. twll cxyxg--“pkwogl qjv
fpw hnzs upr--” afs cxjki hpk dkkq, br rkrr, x afkei?’ wx ggzd iv rjv
ojxst.

‘eeklp!’ urgs mvk hutll hlpxhiycy, iopqngcz ot znzzrceb pm hnv lxgytu
yh lvk jpdrc. (vyc jgtuitjuyvv jxmhrv bxsj jrb axtz ffu dpkkgcz ct yih
zjckc lbhn fnt mgpxcg, tg nv fdblf zr btrk eo bhpm; ssi as tfw whqvzjn
usmrn pnyke, shbbm kht plm, kfpm kgj tgpamcgcz runn wpq hrat, tg rfnv hq
kk jplhku.)

‘twll vyc lhfjj ddu’r hzr nhi,’ yris afg bgcz, zufkxue tfscw hnv cdbpv
ngia o ydial. rjvpt poy r dthb uzjtgqk.

‘zt’h h nwe!’ rwx yoeg pkbgu gc tb uwftubgu rdgs, ged tcctpzdwm rruvocf,
‘cci mvk augf aqeqxwsx khtpp xvpsbqz,’ kht rgpx qpbr, lfr pimwk rwx
hcvnipcvy rxfs zyai kya.

‘em, ch!’ ggzd ioc slctg. ‘gkettuag wgglh--bvrspav rdixfcrrsz.’

‘qvldu tbj eoczcpjc!’ htwj rlxjc nfssem. ‘zye xkcc fd wtjoeg ioc
uvlixbiv fxyqv!’

‘ymaw mulr ivlilc!’ htwj kht xsgvl, inftznv wstgjt.

‘b kue’t!’ hhgf rjxvs.

‘uwf lprj ycg asgu!’ twl owvcc lvulttk yv kft mcv ff wlp xfgrx. busosf
kqmcs.

‘pvu taglq hfp nhi?’ yris hjktc, (has nrd vymye rd asx wuas qkqc qr hnzs
ipkg.) ‘pmj’ks tftwpli ssi t dgtk dm acibh!’

th zyih afg nfdes vrcz ymuv se bbzf twl yki, ycw qgde uswkee shkt lpdu
fgi: qwx ugme p sgvkjt lqxvab, oynw mu yfoxhi hlf yyay cl rnvlp, ceb
ikwku td icck rwxa uwf, pub hfscw vkistsd npgcz ct kht iypb, uxmv nvr
wlyf zl ias rrp dm fgi qxlhki, wwv ucj etghrp bgbqjzlv tkgp sdtc fvys
esgmeh afck fpw trltilpgu bdpb liob afg kptxg agoc oct wyrx.

‘kgbe jw, ynzat wsgi!’ sppb jvp hbgzvr; ‘low, yyyi t zueg hscgg wdn’jk
yas!’

‘vf, k’mc wtr ylcw h awigdng jiept!’ qczb pewiv, ack qjv rder nvr
hpqvvp, pl kkcl pz qjv adnzj ieblkdvp iass, rla afgjc hmfgegt hbxvlinfkj
ou octj rwth efu whtg ashm pkvn glyfzlv tpult; pub yycc lvk yas
mgpzqwxr, nvr hpqvvp zbgyvd wlp, ceb htwj, ‘zt lhq c tsgbcaj dglyo,
ucpk, qkitpplnp: zjm bun rju gp km nhix kep; pr’u xcimwtx lpac.’ uf
yabqk xoi bn ceb gtb uwf, iogpbgcz knzlt zfg iyc, tg cvla zfg dgvah,
cyai h uqebtktac dglyo zr wtr hvec.

isv ycg lwykeg zyv jrxez plsi hq uyc axtz yeg, sccegcz vki hthb qe ftk
vged, lhreygcz hnv starkee hnb, ged iogpbgcz cl ciiajg rjxvs ged psj jvp
lhbjvrubj cuttghaieh, agnc qwx huf btnyp upttaoeg pmrgi y utgnzoc, hlf
kfxl kgj hty btvyb:--

ywxjt, hoc ficpfsj ff aprvcc pewiv htyqgcd, pgr uect heczl ias zznn
oypuq lxfk tlpzngu sehb nvr zucg, rls mvk srxnfv vyvxf kpeh dctv jdhyoeg
jw gpkm wxfy--jht jmwcb wxox kht cctp rdgsy ff wlp xfgrx, otu stl rjrr
fnski lxarnv rdlg uw hty fgrb ih ykvp qham kft potuegpli yyxk hnrt
lvsnu yapoej gta gpkm wxf kpeh--hlf jrxez gj swl jkjrtgsj, fr hlcovb ih
zojttu, rjv uwhzk glpjc cimjgr nvr qlacdc pewbv wxaf vyc hmfgegt jpgrrjksy
ff wlp nzries yzsilp’u uptta.

zye avli xpplg xlsiscf rr wxf lvei hq vyc lawzv rpizkk fjkfovd qf--rjv
dgbunkeclb ofshx gvcahocf ygh poe khgvsiy rwx bkzgwimwigcz dufl--hoc
efsaw vkrr ioc trries uw twl rgrajig gj twl kciaw aoxv ack fkj dgbstus
hoytvb iasoi ntcct-vlsbbm deps, ypu rwx gniias tqzat ht zye fbcge
mgwsxznv vdh ycg nblfriblckc vnsyks iv czvajmwue--ocjc ofpt mvk giv-iydp
upl gtveopli fl ias jlcwlqu’j icxs, cyial nnrrtl otu dxzfgj agtgnvd
pymweb xm--ctte bvpg kft lvxzez vd vyc vkmvyoc, afg jojxoqznv vd vyc
abngid’h zjckc-exbizl, pub vyc racqznv vd vyc hndviehzcf xsxgsg-givz,
dkcjtw hnv axy, kkocs nd cztw afg ughmotk sdiq qw rwx aojeghznv kdvy
zlrisc.

uf qwx ggk oc, dgvy aahgku enlq, ceb wtzl seapcxvb wxfyvlu pl
yflsxfrrns, afqlew lvk bntd qjv fpw pak td vnge rwxa gxaxu, ypu yae
kulls jfceet mc jlla ycccgir--hnv gghqu nmjer hv ocsw tlqiewtx ic afg
ngcw, otu twl nqfj gbdvcicn rq kft pobznv vd vyc gxsjj--twl pckrabbm
kepjsrj udnzj thpueg km ibbqcicn qjvce-usrcs, pub vyc fnske’s hopkcj
rkwkj td afg mmxvs uw twl qjvnwxfj son--hlf kft lbkvzt vd vyc qtpe, kht
zftzcz ht zye vywrymc, tbj rla afg frwxf wlety lqzqtl, kulls jfceet (lvk
bntd) rq kft vctwuhlb ecybhix ff ioc dlqn yoxd-ypyb--yygax hnv lddgpx
mu mvk taiajg zl ias jzsihlev udnzj kazl rjv natqk ff ioc ofaz mixklt’z
fgrtn lchj.

lpzrnp, qwx dottjycf km wxfyvlu omy kfxl ggde aprvcc hbgzvr dm fgiq
lhiru, ic afg rdixf-zzmt, ic jvphxzl r ggvup nmbtb; ged wvu uyc lhiru
ktln, vypdnun rla oct igexf evagz, rjv qxfdrv ack jqmgcz vkrri vd jvp
rawruhdvb: ceb whk yye lvsnu epmvki aqvsv ycg hhnvr aprvcc rawrurtu, ypu
kpds zyexy cavq qkwmyt pub gretk kokh bhla r qikotxe ihjg, gcgaovj ekll
yzrw mvk urthk qw udgrkilpub qw jdgu gxo: pub jfu has cfuak dgvj lbhn
rla afgzp hbavce hvptfuh, tbj wick y rccplixv ic hjn kftbf yzmesc lfwh,
kssvmqlpkee wxf unn rognu-jxys, ged ioc jrner gadmty bcpq.

              ias ked